,Name,Opportunity Number,Eligibility,Agency Name,Description
0,Transitions to Excellence in Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Research,21-508,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Division of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences (MCB) has developed a new opportunity to enable researchers with a strong track record of prior accomplishment to pursue a new avenue of research or inquiry. This funding mechanism is designed to facilitate and promote a PI’s ability to effectively adopt empowering technologies that might not be readily accessible in the PI’s current research environment or collaboration network.Transformative research likely spans disciplines and minimizing the practical barriers to doing so will strengthen research programs poised to make significant contributions.The award is intended to allow mid-career or later-stage researchers (Associate or Full Professor, or equivalent) to expand or make a transition in their research programs via a sabbatical leave or similar mechanism of professional development and then develop that research program in their own lab. This award will also enable the PI to acquire new scientific or technical expertise, facilitate the investigator’s competitiveness, and potentially lead to transformational impacts in molecular and cellular bioscience. The award would fund up to six months of PI salary during the first sabbatical or professional development year, followed by support for continued research for two subsequent years upon the PI’s return to normal academic duties. Requests for flexibility in the timing of the sabbatical or professional development year will be considered with appropriate justification. Please contact the cognizant program director for the solicitation. Through this solicitation MCB and NSF hope to develop a novel mechanism that will encourage investigators to expand and/or transition to new research areas aligned with MCB priorities, to increase retention of investigators in science, and to ensure a diverse scientific workforce that remains engaged in active research.


Highest funding priority is given to proposals that have outstanding intellectual merit and broader impacts, while proposals with weaknesses in either category (or those that are perceived as likely to have an incremental impact) will not be competitive.Proposals should also demonstrate a strong record of prior accomplishment, a compelling plan for professional development that will enable the PI to forge a new direction in their scholarship, and a strong rationale for why this support is needed for the PI to become competitive in the new research area. Support for the proposed transition from the PI’s department, described in a letter from the department chair or equivalent, will also be required. Proposals that do not describe a plan for a transition in research direction will be considered unresponsive. Proposals that are motivated to understand the molecular and cellular basis of disease and disease treatments are not appropriate for the Division and will be returned without review.


Proposals addressing major open questions at the intersections of biology with other disciplines, such as physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer sciences, and engineering are of particular interest to the program."
1,Plant Genome Research Program,21-507,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"



The Plant Genome Research Program (PGRP) supports genome-scale research that addresses challenging questions of biological, societal and economic importance. PGRP encourages the development of innovative tools, technologies and resources that empower a broad plant research community to answer scientific questions on a genome-wide scale. Emphasis is placed on the scale and depth of the question being addressed and the creativity of the approach. Data produced by plant genomics should be usable, accessible, integrated across scales and of high impact across biology. Training, broadening participation, and career development are essential to scientific progress and should be integrated in all PGRP-funded projects.


Two funding tracks are currently available:

1. RESEARCH-PGR TRACK: Genome-scale plant research to address fundamental questions in biology, including processes of economic and/or societal importance.

2. TRTech-PGR TRACK: Tools, resources and technology breakthroughs that further enable functional plant genomics.




"
2,Division of Integrative Organismal Systems Core Programs,21-506,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"

The Division of Integrative Organismal Systems (IOS) Core Programs support research aimed at understanding why organisms are structured the way they are and function as they do. Proposals are welcomed in all of the core scientific program areas supported by the Division of Integrative Organismal Systems (IOS). Areas of inquiry include, but are not limited to, developmental biology and the evolution of developmental processes, nervous system development, structure, modification, function, and evolution; biomechanics and functional morphology, physiological processes, symbioses and microbial interactions, interactions of organisms with biotic and abiotic environments,plant and animal genomics, and animal behavior. Proposals should focus on organisms as a fundamental unit of biological organization. Principal Investigators are encouraged to apply systems approaches that will lead to conceptual and theoretical insights and predictions about emergent organismal properties.

"
3,Algebra and Number Theory,PD-20-1264,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Algebra and Number Theory program supports research in algebra, algebraic and arithmetic geometry, number theory, and representation theory.


Conferences


Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities.


For conference proposals with budgets not exceeding $50,000, which in accordance with NSF policy can be reviewed internally at NSF, the following target dates are in effect: For events that will take place between March and December in a given year, proposals should be submitted in October of the previous year. For events that will occur in January or February of a given year, proposals should be submitted in May of the preceding year. In order to allow time for external review, conference proposals with budget requests exceeding $50,000 should be submitted roughly seven months before the event is scheduled to take place.


For fiscal year 2021, the October target dates for conference proposals are waived in view of the current pandemic. Conference proposals for meetings with budget requests not exceeding $50,000 should be submitted at least four months in advance of the event."
4,Successor-in-Interest (Type 6 Parent Clinical Trial Optional),PA-20-275,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) hereby notify recipient organizations holding specific types of NIH grants, listed in the full Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), that applications for change of recipient organization status, often referred to in this announcement as Successor-In-Interest, may be submitted to this FOA. Applications for change of recipient organization status are considered prior approval requests (as described in Section 8.1.2.8 of the NIH Grants Policy Statement) and will be routed for consideration directly to the Grants Management Specialist named in the current award. Although successor-in-interest requests may be submitted through this FOA, there is no guarantee that an award will be transferred to the new organization. All applicants are encouraged to discuss potential requests with the awarding IC before submission."
5,Health Services Research on Minority Health and Health Disparities (R01- Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-310,"Private institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage innovative health services research that can directly and demonstrably contribute to the improvement of minority health and/or the reduction of health disparities at the health care system-level as well as within clinical settings.
6,Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) Study Biospecimen Access (X01),PAR-21-044,"Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) Study provides the scientific community with biospecimens (urine, plasma, and serum) and related research data on behaviors, attitudes, biomarkers and health outcomes associated with tobacco use in the U.S.  This opportunity allows investigators to apply for access to the biospecimens from the PATH Study.  Information about the PATH Study and this resource may be found on the PATH Study series page at the University of Michigans National Addiction and HIV Data Archive Program (NAHDAP) website, part of the Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Researchs (ICPSR) website."
7,"Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs) in Human Cancers for Years 2021, 2022, and 2023 (P50 Clinical Trial Required)",PAR-20-305,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"Through this funding opportunity announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) invites applications for P50 Research Center Grants for Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPORE). The program will fund P50 SPORE grants to support state-of-the-art investigator-initiated translational research that will contribute to improved prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of an organ-specific cancer or a highly related group of cancers. For the purpose of this FOA, a group of highly related cancers are those that are derived from the same organ system, such as gastrointestinal, neuroendocrine, head and neck, and other cancers.  Other programmatically appropriate groups of cancers may include those centered around a common biological mechanism critical for promoting tumorigenesis and/or cancer progression in organ sites that belong to different organ systems. For example, a SPORE may focus on cancers caused by the same infectious agent or cancers promoted and sustained by dysregulation of a common signaling pathway. In addition, a SPORE may focus on cross-cutting themes such as pediatric cancers or cancer health disparities. The research supported through this program must be translational and must stem from research on human biology using cellular, molecular, structural, biochemical, and/or genetic experimental approaches. SPORE projects must have the goal of reaching a translational human endpoint within the project period of the grant."
8,"DoD Reconstructive Transplant, Clinical Network Award",W81XWH-20-RTRP-CNA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The RTRP seeks to promote a major multi-institutional network of VCA Centers and associated collaborators for the purpose of standardizing clinical protocols and SOPs for face and hand transplantation, and assessing those protocols in multi-institutional clinical trials. It is the intent of the RTRP to bring together investigators from as many VCA Centers for both face and hand transplantation as possible to establish a consensus in the field of reconstructive transplantation for these protocols and SOPs. The RTRP recognizes that such a consensus is a necessary first step to advancing face and hand transplantation from experimental status to that of a viable choice with the potential for reimbursement under health insurance policies. This effort will be executed through a two-phased approach in the form of a single award to the Clinical Network Coordinating Center. The Coordinating Center will serve as the Clinical Network information and planning nexus, providing administrative, operational, and data management support services to implement Clinical Network activities in a timely manner. Guidance and oversight of the Clinical Network will be provided by the RTRP Clinical Network Steering Committee, composed of the RTRP Programmatic Panel, program staff, and other key U.S. Army Medical Research and Development Command (USAMRDC) personnel. Phase I Phase I of the award will consist of five key objectives: • Establish the Clinical Network: Once awarded, the Coordinating Center must work with the RTRP Clinical Network Steering Committee to invite VCA Centers and other collaborators into the Clinical Network as subawards to serve as Network Sites. (Network Sites will not be included in the application itself.) The Clinical Network must be representative of both face and hand transplantation and include as many VCA Centers as possible, as well as other collaborators as necessary to adequately include expertise across all RTRP Clinical Network Focus Areas. • Develop Standardized Protocols and SOPs: The Coordinating Center will establish a framework and collaborative environment for the Clinical Network within which the Network Sites will work as equal partners to meet the goals of standardizing protocols and SOPs for both face and hand transplantation. • Develop Clinical Trial Applications: The Coordinating Center will work with the Network Sites to develop one clinical trial application for face transplantation and one clinical trial application for hand transplantation utilizing the standardized protocols and SOPs. • External Peer Review: The Coordinating Center will be responsible for coordinating and funding an external scientific peer review of the two clinical trial applications developed under Phase I of the award. Results of the peer review will then be submitted to the RTRP Clinical Network Steering Committee for assessment. • Regulatory Approval: Any regulatory approvals required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) must be obtained during Phase I. Upon approval to proceed with the scientifically reviewed clinical trials from the RTRP Clinical Network Steering Committee, the standardized protocols and SOPs will be submitted to the single unified Institutional Review Board (IRB) of record for review and, upon approval, then submitted to the USAMRDC Human Research Protection Office (HRPO) for review and approval. The period of performance for Phase I is 2 years, with maximum funding of $3 million (M) in total costs to the Coordinating Center. The Coordinating Center will manage funding to the Network Sites as subawards and for other key collaborators. RTRP funding for the Phase II option is contingent on successful completion of Phase I objectives and on available funding. Phase II The Phase II option of the award, pending availability of funds, will have one key objective: • Conduct Clinical Trials: The Clinical Network will expand upon the successful development of standardized protocols and SOPs for both face and hand transplantation by assessing and validating them in multi-institutional clinical trials (one for face transplantation and one for hand transplantation). Network Sites with VCA Centers will serve as enrollment sites for at least one of the clinical trials, depending on its specialty in face and/or hand transplantation. "
9,Sustainable Landscapes Broad Agency Announcement,BAA-E3-SUSTAINABLELANDSCAPES-2020,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Agency for International Development,"This Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) seeks opportunities to co-create, co-design, co-invest, and collaborate in the research, development, piloting, and scaling of innovative interventions for reducing land-based greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and increasing long-term carbon sequestration at scale. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) invites organizations, companies, foundations, community-based enterprises and other public and private entities, academic and research institutions, partner country government agencies, and investors to propose novel or creative approaches for achieving these objectives and at the same time promoting inclusive, economic growth, conserve biodiversity and sustainably manage natural resources, advancing democratic values, promoting transparency and the rule of law, and contributing to greater prosperity and well-being. Cross-sectoral and integrated approaches to addressing other development challenges together with reducing GHG emissions are also welcome, as they are often critical to scaling up climate mitigation outcomes.  USAID’s Office of Global Climate Change (GCC) within the Bureau for Economic Growth, Education and Environment (E3), in cooperation with USAID regional bureaus and selected Missions, developed this BAA for Sustainable Landscapes to improve the Agency’s ability to assist partner countries in solving complex challenges that threaten sustainable development. This BAA seeks to engage with a wide range of actors to develop and provide innovative interventions that further USAID’s commitments to assisting partner countries on their Journey to Self-Reliance through protecting the environment and natural resources and promoting sustainable development and livelihoods in ways that reduce land-based greenhouse gas emissions or increase long-term carbon sequestration at scale. Interventions should offer significant promise for conserving, managing, and/or restoring ecosystems and productive lands in developing countries through one or more levers that address the key threats and drivers that influence GHG emissions and carbon sequestration in the land sector. USAID plans to issue addenda under this BAA that solicit engagement on specific opportunities to address Sustainable Landscapes issues, for example in specific sectors, countries, or geographies.[1] [1] Through this BAA, USAID is announcing the Agency’s intent to seek opportunities to co-create, co-design, co-invest, and collaborate but USAID is not soliciting expressions of interest with this announcement. These will be solicited through a subsequent addendum or addenda to this BAA."
10,BRAIN Initiative Fellows: Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship (F32),RFA-MH-20-620,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the The Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative Fellows (F32) program is to enhance the research training of promising postdoctorates, early in their postdoctoral training period, who have the potential to become productive investigators in research areas that will advance the goals of the BRAIN Initiative. Applications are encouraged in any research area that is aligned with the BRAIN Initiative, including neuroethics. Applicants are expected to propose research training in an area that clearly complements their predoctoral research. Formal training in analytical tools appropriate for the proposed research is expected to be an integral component of the research training plan. In order to maximize the training potential of the F32 award, this program encourages applications from individuals who have not yet completed their terminal doctoral degree and who expect to do so within 12 months of the application due date. On the application due date, candidates may not have completed more than 12 months of postdoctoral training."
11,Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) for 3D Elevation Program (3DEP),G20AS00104,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndividualsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",Geological Survey,"This Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) is issued to facilitate 
the collection of lidar and derived elevation data for the 3D 
Elevation Program (3DEP). The BAA continues the USGS¿s long 
standing approach to elevation data acquisition through a 
combination of contracting through the USGS Geospatial 
Products and Services Contracts (GPSC) and partner 
acquisitions. The BAA is meant to provide increased visibility 
to these existing processes for data acquisition partnerships 
to the broadest stakeholder community possible.

Proposals are invited from applicants who wish to propose a 
partnership with 3DEP to fund lidar data acquisition and the 
creation of lidar-derived elevation products. Applicants may 
fund an acquisition project through the USGS Geospatial 
Products and Services Contract (GPSC) or they may request 3DEP 
funds to apply towards a lidar data acquisition project where 
the requesting partner uses their own contracting vehicle. 
Federal agencies, state and local governments, tribes, 
academic institutions and the private sector are eligible to 
submit proposals. The Government will review proposals based 
on the project¿s alignment with the evaluation criteria 
identified in section VI.A. of this BAA."
12,Role of Myeloid Cells in Persistence and Eradication of HIV-1 Reservoirs from the Brain (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-MH-20-702,"County governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites research grant applications studying mechanisms of HIV-1 persistence in myeloid cells and strategies to target this reservoir in the central nervous system. Basic and translational research in domestic and international settings are of interest. Multidisciplinary research teams and collaborative alliances  are encouraged but not required. RFA-MH-20-701uses the R01 grant mechanism whileRFA-MH-20-702uses the R21 mechanism. High risk/high payoff projects that lack preliminary data or utilize existing data may be most appropriate for the R21 mechanism, while applicants with preliminary data may wish to apply using the R01 mechanism."
13,Role of Myeloid Cells in Persistence and Eradication of HIV-1 Reservoirs from the Brain (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-MH-20-701,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesState governments",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites research grant applications studying mechanisms of HIV-1 persistence in myeloid cells and strategies to target this reservoir in the central nervous system. Basic and translational research in domestic and international settings are of interest. Multidisciplinary research teams and collaborative alliances  are encouraged but not required.
14,Research on Emerging Technologies for Teaching and Learning (RETTL),20-612,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The purpose of theResearch on Emerging Technologiesfor Teaching and Learning (RETTL) program is to fund exploratory and synergistic research in emerging technologies (to include, but not limited to, artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, and immersive or augmenting technologies) for teaching and learning in the future. The program accepts proposals that focus on learning, teaching, or a combination of both. The scope of the program is broad, with special interest in diverse learner/educator populations, contexts, and content, including teaching and learning in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and in foundational areas that enable STEM (e.g., self-regulation, literacy, communication, collaboration, creativity, and socio-emotional skills). Research in this program should be informed by the convergence (synthesis) of multiple disciplines: e.g., learning sciences; discipline-based education research; computer and information science and engineering; design; and cognitive, behavioral, and social sciences. Within this broad scope, the program also encourages projects that investigate teaching and learning related to futuristic and highly technological work environments."
15,Investigation of the Transmission of Kaposi Sarcoma-Associated Herpesvirus (KSHV) (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-CA-20-046,"State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) intends to advance our understanding of: the modes of transmission of Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), also called human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8); the biology of the initial steps of infection; and the risk factors for infection. Such studies should inform and advance efforts to reduce or eliminate KSHV transmission and thus prevent Kaposi sarcoma (KS), KSHV-associated multicentric Castleman disease (MCD), primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), and other KSHV-induced diseases in populations living with HIV or at high risk of developing HIV infection."
16,Pediatric and Reproductive Environmental Health Scholars (PREHS): Strengthening the Pipeline (K12 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-ES-20-007,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The goal of the Pediatric and Reproductive Environmental Health Scholars (PREHS) program is to create of a strong network of healthcare professionals who possess the skills and knowledge to address the complexities of pediatric and reproductive environmental health. The PREHS program is envisioned as a strategy to bridge clinical training with a career in environmental health research relevant to pediatrics and reproductive health. As such, the PREHS program will provide training in clinical practice in environmental health, community-level advocacy, and teaching to pediatric healthcare providers, obstetricians/gynecologists, nurses, and other interested healthcare professionals, to be known as PREH Scholars. These K12 grant awards will generate well-qualified pediatric and reproductive environmental health leaders."
17,University Student Research Challenge,NNH20ZEA001N-USRC,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",NASA Headquarters,"Amendment 1 to the NASA ARMD Research Opportunities in Aeronautics (ROA–2020) NRA has been posted on the NSPIRES site. University Student Research Challenge (solicitation NNH20ZEA001N-USRC) seeks to challenge students to propose new aeronautics ideas/concepts that are relevant to NASA Aeronautics. USRC will provide students, from accredited U.S. colleges or universities, with grants for their projects and it includes the challenge of raising a modest amount of cost share funds through crowdfunding platform. The process of creating and preparing a crowdfunding campaign acts as a teaching accelerator - requiring students to act like entrepreneurs and taking action. Crowdfunding also raises awareness about students’ research among the public. The solicitation goal can be accomplished through project ideas such as advancing the design, developing technology or capabilities in support of aviation, by demonstrating a novel concept, or enabling advancement of aeronautics-related technologies. Notices of Intent (NOIs) are not required for this solicitation. Three-page proposals for the next USRC cycle are due November 12, 2020. Proposals can also be submitted later and will be evaluated in two additional cycles with due dates: February 25, 2021 and June 24, 2021."
18,Request for Information (RFI): Reducing Environmental Methane Everyday of the Year (REMEDY),DE-FOA-0002419,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy ,"Request for Information (RFI): Reducing Environmental Methane Everyday of the Year (REMEDY)

This is a Request for Information only. This RFI is not seeking applications for financial assistance.  The purpose of this RFI is solely to solicit input for ARPA-E consideration to inform the possible formulation of future programs.  To view the entire RFI, please visit https://arpa-e-foa.energy.gov.

The purpose of this RFI is to solicit input for a potential future ARPA-E research program focused on technologies to prevent and/or abate methane emissions. The goal is to reverse the rate of accumulation of methane in the atmosphere, resulting in a decrease in atmospheric methane concentration. ARPA-E is seeking information at this time regarding transformative and implementable technologies that could:
(a)	Prevent methane emissions from anthropogenic activities. Examples include addressing improperly abandoned coal mines and oil and gas wells; plugged oil and gas wells that leak; uncontrolled landfill gas; and agricultural-related emissions from farming and ruminants.  Emphasis will be on preventing energy-related emissions, but ARPA-E is interested in approaches that could be broadly applied which intervene before methane escapes into the atmosphere. 
(b)	Abate methane emissions at the source (stack, vents, leaks, etc.).  Sources may have steady or variable flow rates and/or concentration.  Source temperatures may range from ambient to elevated (i.e. >200 C).  System-level approaches are encouraged (i.e. integrated methane collection/capture, reactor, and monitoring/control system). 
(c)	Remove methane from the air. Examples include approaches which enhance methane oxidation reactions in the troposphere, mineralization (i.e. biological oxidation of methane to CO2) in soils, or recover methane for use as a fuel or chemical reactant.  

Note that some approaches may fit several categories.  For example, biological enhancement of methanotropes could be used to prevent methane emissions from coal mines, abate emissions from leaks, and remove methane from air.  Priority is oxidation of methane to CO2.  Technologies that recover or beneficially use methane will need to show ability to address at least 1 billion standard cubic feet/yr economically.

ARPA-E is interested in processes that reduce methane emissions by >90% on a life-cycle basis.  Inputs, including energy and water, need to be quantified.  The performance metrics for cost  and water inputs  are intended to allow comparison of methane prevention and abatement processes to CO2 control processes.   Performance targets include:
a)	Net greenhouse gas reduction >90% based on a lifecycle analysis, calculated using 100 year greenhouse gas warming potentials for all relevant species.
b)	Freshwater consumption <3 m3/ton CO2 equivalent
c)	No emission of toxic or environmentally harmful substances 
d)	Methane reduction cost $150/ton CO2 equivalent"
19,Announcement for Program Funding for NRCS’ Feral Swine Eradication and Control Pilot Program for Federal fiscal year (FY) 2021,USDA-NRCS-MULTI-FSCP-20-NOFO0001036,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",Natural Resources Conservation Service,"The purpose of the FSCP is to respond to the threat feral swine pose to agriculture, native ecosystems, and human and animal health. Feral swine are a destructive, non-native, invasive species and their populations have been increasing across the United States. An estimated $2 billion in damage, including agricultural, is caused by feral swine each year. The species can have significant negative impacts on plant and animal habitats, soils, water quality, as well as other natural and cultural resources. Livestock and humans are also susceptible to diseases carried by feral swine. The Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 directs USDA to carry out the pilot program where the Secretary has determined that feral swine have been identified as such a threat. NRCS State Conservationists and APHIS State Directors, in coordination with State technical committees, have identified pilot projects which can be carried out within states with high feral swine densities. States eligible to participate in the second round of FSCP funding include level 3, 4, 5 states as identified by APHIS Wildlife Services base funding levels for feral swine control: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas. Not every eligible state has been approved for new pilot projects in this second round. States that are not advertising for a new pilot project include Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, and Tennessee. Pilot projects will consist broadly of three coordinated components: 1) feral swine removal by APHIS, 2) restoration efforts supported by NRCS, and 3) assistance to producers for feral swine control provided through grants with non-federal partners. This call for proposals is intended to address component 3 described above for non-federal partners to provide landowner assistance for on-farm trapping and provide related services as part of the pilot projects described above. Funding for these services will be provided through grant agreements between partners and NRCS.
 
NRCS financial assistance for producers and provided through grants is limited to providing financial assistance for activities that will help landowners control the feral swine population. These activities may include, but are not limited to, outreach, training, equipment, and operations for feral swine trapping that are consistent with APHIS technical standards. Subsequent actions, including disposal, are the responsibility of those carrying out the trapping activities, and must occur consistent with all associated federal, state, and local laws. Funds distributed by NRCS for the FSCP may not be used to provide producer financial assistance for:
 
·      Ground shooting
 
·      Euthanasia (use of barbiturates)
 
·      Aerial gunning
 
·      Drop Nets
 
·      Snares
 
·      Cable Restraints
 
·      Foot Holds
 
·      Relocation
 
·      Frightening devices
 
·      Immobilization
 
·      Reproductive inhibitors
 
·      Toxicants
 
·      Any other state or locally identified prohibited techniques or practices

NRCS is accepting proposals that address the expected partner roles in the identified pilot projects. Additional information about specific pilot projects including target areas and the roles for which partner assistance is being requested can be found here: www.nrcs.usda.gov/fscp 
 "
20,Use of the Nasa Physical Sciences Informatics System Appendix G,NNH20ZDA014N,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",NASA Headquarters,"The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Science Mission Directorate (SMD) announces the release of “Appendix G” as an amendment to the NASA Research Announcement (NRA) entitled “Use of the NASA Physical Sciences Informatics System” Solicitation NNH17ZTT001N. The Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate (HEOMD) originally released the NRA NNH17ZTT001N on September 15, 2017. In July 2020 HEOMD transferred management for this NRA and all subsequent appendices to SMD.Appendix G (NNH20ZDA014N) is available via the NASA Solicitation and Proposal Integrated Review and Evaluation System, or NSPIRES. This is a high-level summary notice, and it is not the complete or verbatim text for this Appendix. The main NRA and Appendix G’s full text is available only by visiting https://nspires.nasaprs.com/ and searching NNH20ZDA014N. Proposals for Appendix G are due on December 15, 2020.The Biological and Physical Sciences (BPS) Division within NASA’s the Science Mission Directorate (SMD) funds this research. NASA's Physical Sciences Research Program conducts fundamental and applied physical sciences research, with the objective of enabling exploration and pioneering scientific discovery. NASA's experiments in the various disciplines of physical science reveal how physical systems respond to the near absence of gravity. They also reveal how other forces that on Earth are small, as compared to gravity, can dominate system behavior in space.Appendix G solicits ground-based research proposals to generate new scientific insights by utilizing experimental data residing in NASA’s Physical Sciences Informatics (PSI) system (http://psi.nasa.gov), an online database of completed physical science reduced-gravity flight experiments conducted on the International Space Station (ISS), Space Shuttle flights, Free-flyers, or commercial cargo flights to and from the ISS, and related ground-based studies.This NRA, subject to limitation, is open to researchers in all categories of U.S. and non-U.S. organizations, including educational institutions, industry, nonprofit organizations, NASA Centers, and other U.S. Government agencies. The NRA and all appendices are part of the NASA Science Assistance Listing CFDA Number 43.001. All SMD financial assistance complies with 14 CFR 1250, i.e., the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, that ensures that no person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any SMD-funded research. As a condition of receipt of funding, the institution acknowledges and agrees that it must comply (and require any beneficiaries, e.g., subgrantees, contractors, successors, transferees, and assignees to comply) with applicable provisions of national laws and policies prohibiting discrimination.Every organization that intends to submit a proposal in response to this NRA must be registered with NSPIRES, and such registration must identify the authorized organization representative(s) who will submit the electronic proposal. Proposals must be submitted by an authorized official of the proposing organization.NNH20ZDA014N awards grants, cooperative agreements, and inter- or intra-agency transfer agreements, depending on the nature of the work proposed, the proposing organization, and/or program requirements. The typical period of performance for an award is two years. A lapse in Government funding, a public health, or other emergency may impact the NRA. In such cases, proposers should visit NSPIRES, the official NASA source for the NRA and any program Appendix G updates.Email comments or questions to the contacts referenced in the full solicitation or at the end of this summary notice and indicate in the subject line: “NNH20ZDA014N”. Responses to inquiries will be given by email when appropriate and posted as “Frequently asked Questions” (FAQs) on NNH20ZDA014N landing page on NSPIRES. Anonymity of persons or institutions who submit questions or comments will be preserved."
21,Topology,PD-20-1267,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Supports research on algebraic topology, including homotopy theory, ordinary and extraordinary homology and cohomology, cobordism theory, and K-theory; topological manifolds and cell complexes, fiberings, knots, and links; differential topology and actions of groups of transformations; geometric group theory; and general topology and continua theory.


Conferences


Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities.


For conference proposals with budgets not exceeding $50,000, which in accordance with NSF policy can be reviewed internally at NSF, the following target dates are in effect: For an event that will start on a date prior to October 1 during a given calendar year, the proposal should be submitted in September of the previous year. For an event that will start in the period October 1 through December 31 of a given year, the proposal should be submitted in April of the same year. A conference proposal with a budget request exceeding $50,000 should be submitted at least eight months before the event is scheduled to take place, in order to allow time for external review.


For fiscal year 2021, the September due date for conference proposals is waived in view of the current pandemic. Please submit conference proposals for in-person meetings with budget requests not exceeding $50,000 at least four months in advance of the conference dates. No decisions will be made on proposals to support in-person conferences until it is established whether any pandemic-related travel restrictions for the conference site and time frame will be in place."
22,Geometric Analysis,PD-20-1265,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The program in Geometric Analysis supports research on differential geometry and its relation to partial differential equations and variational principles; aspects of global analysis, including the differential geometry of complex manifolds and geometric Lie group theory; geometric methods in modern mathematical physics; and geometry of convex sets, integral geometry, and related geometric topics.


Conferences


Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities.


For conference proposals with budgets not exceeding $50,000, which in accordance with NSF policy can be reviewed internally at NSF, the following target dates are in effect: For an event that will start on a date prior to October 1 during a given calendar year, the proposal should be submitted in September of the previous year. For an event that will start in the period October 1 through December 31 of a given year, the proposal should be submitted in April of the same year. A conference proposal with a budget request exceeding $50,000 should be submitted at least eight months before the event is scheduled to take place, in order to allow time for external review.


For fiscal year 2021, the September due date for conference proposals is waived in view of the current pandemic. Please submit conference proposals for in-person meetings with budget requests not exceeding $50,000 at least four months in advance of the conference dates. No decisions will be made on proposals to support in-person conferences until it is established whether any pandemic-related travel restrictions for the conference site and time frame will be in place."
23,Social and Behavioral Intervention Research to Address Modifiable Risk Factors for Cancer in Rural Populations (R01 Clinical Trial Required),RFA-CA-20-051,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this RFA is to solicit applications to develop, adapt, and test individual-, community- or multilevel interventions to address modifiable risk factors for cancer in rural populations. Proposals should focus on primary prevention and assess and address one or more of the social and behavioral risk factors that contribute to cancer disparities in rural populations. Proposals should also assess and address myriad social determinants of health, cultural factors, and health care and technology access barriers that may contribute to rural cancer disparities. To date, there have been few intervention studies to address social and behavioral risk factors for cancer specifically in rural populations, and very little has been published on addressing the modifiable, non-geographic aspects of rurality that may contribute variance to cancer-related outcomes in rural populations. This FOA also encourages implementation science research, to incorporate efficacious cancer control interventions in a coordinated way, into broader, sustainable health programs that are designed to reach rural populations and allow local customization and adaption. The greater availability of granular data and better understanding of issues related to place (geospatial factors) will allow for local customization and adaptation of interventions, where appropriate.  It is equally important that interventions be designed to strengthen or enhance existing, sustainable programs that can be expanded to have a downstream effect on population health. Applicants are strongly encouraged to collaborate with organizations and programs with experience or infrastructure (e.g., telemedicine, behavioral health services) designed to address other health or social problems in rural populations that could afford substantial opportunities to cancer prevention and control investigators. Examples include, but are not limited to, Federally Qualified Health Centers, community health centers, rural health centers"
24,FY 2021 AmeriCorps State and National Grants,CNCS-09-11-20,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher education",Corporation for National and Community Service,"AmeriCorps grants are awarded to eligible organizations proposing to engage AmeriCorps members in evidence-based or evidence-informed interventions to strengthen communities. An AmeriCorps member is an individual who engages in community service through an approved national service position. Members may receive a living allowance and other benefits while serving. Upon successful completion of their service, members earn a Segal AmeriCorps Education Award from the National Service Trust that members can use to pay for higher education expenses or apply to qualified student loans."
25,Energy and Carbon Optimized Synthesis for the Bioeconomy (ECOSynBio),DE-FOA-0002387,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy ,"ECOSynBioThis funding opportunity seeks submissions to establish new technologies to significantly improve the carbon efficiency of bioconversion platforms through the accommodation of external reducing equivalents. Proposed systems of interest include, but are not limited to: (1) carbon optimized fermentation strains that avoid CO2 evolution, (2) engineered mixotrophic consortia or systems that avoid CO2 evolution, (3) biomass or gas fermentation with internal CO2 utilization, (4) cell-free carbon optimized biocatalytic biomass conversion and/or CO2 utilization, and (5) cross-cutting or other proposed carbon optimized bioconversion schemes. All systems will need to demonstrate the capacity to accommodate external reducing equivalents to optimize the carbon efficiency of the system as compared to traditional fermentation systems (i.e. the sum of the recoverable energy contents of the products is greater than the energy content of the biomass or primary carbon feedstock)."
26,Collaborative Research in Computational Neuroscience,20-609,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Computational neuroscience provides a theoretical foundation and a rich set of technical approaches for understanding complex neurobiological systems, building on the theory, methods, and findings of computer science, neuroscience, and numerous other disciplines.


Through the CRCNS program, the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF), National Institutes of Health (NIH), and Department of Energy (DOE); the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung, BMBF); the French National Research Agency (Agence Nationale de la Recherche, ANR); the United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation (BSF); Japan’s National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT); and Spain’s State Research Agency (Agencia Estatal de Investigación, AEI) and National Institute of Health Carlos III (Instituto de Salud Carlos III, ISCIII) support collaborative activities that will advance the understanding of nervous system structure and function, mechanisms underlying nervous system disorders, and computational strategies used by the nervous system.


Two classes of proposals will be considered in response to this solicitation:


Research Proposals describing collaborative research projects, and


Data Sharing Proposals to enable sharing of data and other resources.


Domestic and international projects will be considered. As detailed in the solicitation, international components of collaborative projects may be funded in parallel by the participating agencies. Specific CRCNS opportunities for parallel funding are available for bilateral US-German Research Proposals, US-German Data Sharing Proposals, US-French Research Proposals, US-French Data Sharing Proposals, US-Israeli Research Proposals, US-Israeli Data Sharing Proposals, US-Japanese Research Proposals, US-Japanese Data Sharing Proposals, US-Spanish Research Proposals, US-Spanish Data Sharing Proposals, and multilateral proposals involving the United States and two or more CRCNS partner countries (see Section VIII of the solicitation for country-specific limitations). Collaborating PIs from outside of the United States are referred to Section VIII of the solicitation for further instructions about applying to the appropriate partner funding agency.


Appropriate scientific areas of investigations may be related to the interests of any of the participating funding organizations. Questions concerning a particular project's focus, direction, and relevance to a participating funding organization should be addressed to the appropriate person in the list of agency contacts found in Section VIII of the solicitation.


NSF will coordinate and manage the review of proposals jointly with participating domestic and foreign funding organizations, through a joint panel review process used by all participating funders. Additional information is available in Section VI of the solicitation.


Community-driven efforts such as workshops or synthesis papers are also encouraged, to map out new frontiers at the interface of neuroscience and other disciplines that could reshape brain research and its applications."
27,Tobacco Control Policies to Promote Health Equity (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-303,"City or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support observational or intervention research focused on reducing disparities in tobacco use and secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure in the U.S. Specifically, this FOA aims to stimulate scientific inquiry focused on innovative state and local level tobacco prevention and control policies. The long-term goal of this FOA is to reduce disparities in tobacco-related cancers, and in doing so, to promote health equity among all populations. Applicants submitting applications related to health economics are encouraged to consult NOT-OD-16-025 to ensure that the research projects align with NIH mission priorities in health economics research."
28,Tobacco Control Policies to Promote Health Equity (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-302,"State governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support observational or intervention research focused on reducing disparities in tobacco use and secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure in the U.S. Specifically, this FOA aims to stimulate scientific inquiry focused on innovative state and local level tobacco prevention and control policies. The long-term goal of this FOA is to reduce disparities in tobacco-related cancers, and in doing so, to promote health equity among all populations. Applicants submitting applications related to health economics are encouraged to consult NOT-OD-16-025 to ensure that the research projects align with NIH mission priorities in health economics research."
29,"NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research: Functional Neural Circuits of Interoception (R01, Clinical Trial Not Allowed)",RFA-AT-21-003,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research is a collaborative framework through which 14 NIH Institutes, Centers and Offices jointly support neuroscience related research, with the aim of accelerating discoveries and reducing the burden of nervous system disorders (for further information, see https://neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov/). The goal of this FOA is to enhance our fundamental understanding of interoception with a specific focus on dissecting neural circuits connecting peripheral organs/tissues with the central nervous system via peripheral ganglia. For this FOA, interoception science includes studies of the processes by which an organism senses, interprets, integrates, and regulates signals originating from within itself. The FOA encourages projects that combine diverse expertise and use innovative approaches to delineate interoceptive mechanisms at the molecular, cellular, circuitry, functional, and/or behavioral levels.  Outcomes of this research will lay a critical foundation for future translational and clinical research on interoception as well as its roles in nervous system disorders.  Studies of interoceptive neural circuits exclusively within the central nervous system may consider seeking for BRAIN INITIATIVE funding opportunities."
30,Centers to Advance Research in Endometriosis (CARE) (P01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-HD-21-002,"Small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support the novel development of Centers to Advance Research in Endometriosis (CARE).  These multidisciplinary programs will incorporate basic, translational, and/or clinical studies (excluding clinical trials) in a collaborative entity to accelerate research advances through sharing of knowledge and resources. The ultimate goal of the program is to improve female reproductive health through successful  prevention and treatment of endometriosis."
31,Advancing Informal STEM Learning,20-607,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Advancing Informal STEM Learning (AISL) program seeks to advance new approaches to and evidence-based understanding of the design and development of STEM learningopportunities forthe public in informal environments; provide multiple pathways for broadening access to and engagement in STEM learning experiences; advance innovative research on and assessment of STEM learning in informal environments; and engage the public of all ages in learning STEM in informal environments.

The AISL program supports six types of projects: (1) Pilots and Feasibility Studies, (2) Research in Service to Practice, (3) Innovations in Development, (4) Broad Implementation, (5)Literature Reviews, Syntheses, or Meta-Analyses, and (6) Conferences."
32,"New Models of Integrated HIV/AIDS, Addiction, and Primary Care Services (R34 - Clinical Trial Optional )",PAR-20-274,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement will support the development and testing of enhanced models of care that are able to optimally integrate HIV, addiction, and primary care services."
33,"New Models of Integrated HIV/AIDS, Addiction, and Primary Care Services (R01 Clinical Trial Required)",PAR-20-273,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is to support the testing of enhanced models of care that optimally integrate HIV, addiction, and primary care services."
34,Clinical Translation of Activated Optical Fluorescence Methods and Technologies for Sensitive Cancer Detection in Vivo (R01  Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-295,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"[The purpose of this PAR is to bring a highly sensitivity imaging technology capable of locating very small (1-3 mm) tumors in vivo to clinical utility. Under this funding opportunity, NCI solicits innovative concepts that propose a path to clinical validation for in vivo intelligent or activated optical fluorescence agents or probes with demonstrated capabilities for detection of small tumors. Current imaging techniques are in use for non-invasive cancer detection, but clinical methods are limited to detecting masses several millimeters to centimeters in size. To image small primary or metastatic tumor sites composed of 106 to 107 cells, imaging sensitivity must be improved. This can be achieved without significant hardware advances by improving the contrast between diseased and healthy tissue captured in the image. Thus, there is a clinical need for techniques that improve image contrast between tumors and surrounding background tissue. There are several novel optical fluorescence methods that rely on the use of specialized agents that are activated when coupled to a tumor target. These activated agents dramatically increase the contrast between small tumor cell masses and surrounding tissue. Efforts to develop activated fluorescence imaging agents have been ongoing for over a decade. These developmental successes now need to be translated for clinical use. This FOA thus supports translation of novel activated optical fluorescence technologies for sensitive cancer detection In Vivo. Clinical translation and validation are the primary goals of the proposed research. Minimal development activity in preparation for clinical validation will be accepted. The bulk of the proposed research must focus on translating improvements to imaging sensitivity to a clinical environment. The goal is to demonstrate that tumor cell aggregations on the order of 1 mm 3 in diameter can be visualized in vivo. This FOA, does not support continued development of novel technologies"
35,NCI Research Specialist (Core-based Scientist) Award (R50 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-287,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites grant applications for the Research Specialist Award (R50) in any area of NCI-funded cancer research. This FOA is specifically for core/shared resource/central scientific support scientists. The Research Specialist Award is designed to encourage the development of stable research career opportunities for exceptional scientists who want to continue to pursue research within the context of an existing NCI-funded basic, translational, clinical, or population science cancer research program, but not serve as independent investigators. These scientists, such as researchers within a core/shared resource/central scientific support, are vital to sustaining the biomedical research enterprise. The Research Specialist Award is intended to provide salary support and sufficient autonomy so that individuals are not solely dependent on NCI grants held by others for career continuity."
36,NCI Research Specialist (Laboratory-based Scientist) Award (R50 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-288,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites grant applications for the Research Specialist Award (R50) in any area of NCI-funded cancer research. This FOA is specifically for laboratory-based scientists. The Research Specialist Award is designed to encourage the development of stable research career opportunities for exceptional scientists who want to continue to pursue research within the context of an existing NCI-funded basic, translational, clinical, or population science cancer research program, but not serve as independent investigators. These non-tenure track scientists, such as researchers within a research program, are vital to sustaining the biomedical research enterprise. It is anticipated that only exceptional scientists who want to pursue research within the context of an existing NCI-funded cancer research program, but not serve as independent investigators, will be competitive for this award."
37,The NCI Predoctoral to Postdoctoral Fellow Transition Award (F99/K00),RFA-CA-20-048,"For profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NCI Predoctoral to Postdoctoral Fellow Transition Award (F99/K00) is to encourage and retain outstanding graduate students recognized by their institutions for their high potential and strong interest in pursuing careers as independent cancer researchers. The award will facilitate the transition of talented graduate students into successful cancer research postdoctoral appointments, and provide opportunities for career development activities relevant to their long-term career goals of becoming independent cancer researchers. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) does not allow applicants to propose to lead an independent clinical trial, but does allow applicants to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
38,RESolution of InflammaTion in EnvirOnmentally Related diseasE (RESTORE) (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-ES-20-013,"Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsState governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the RESTORE program is to advance understanding of the role of inflammation resolution pathways at the cellular and molecular level and how exposure to environmental pollutants interferes with these pathways resulting in exposure-induced chronic systemic inflammation and ultimately chronic disease conditions. The initial phase of this program is focused on understanding how chronic exposure to air pollution interferes with resolution of inflammation in pulmonary, cardiovascular, and metabolic systems and diseases."
39,NCI Clinical and Translational Exploratory/Developmental Studies  (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-292,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) supports the development of new exploratory research in cancer diagnosis, treatment, imaging, symptom/toxicity, and prevention clinical trials; correlative studies associated with clinical trials; novel cancer therapeutic, symptom/toxicity, and preventive agent development, radiotherapy development activities, and mechanism-driven combinations; and innovative preclinical studies--including the use of new clinically-relevant models and imaging technologies--which could lead to first-in-human clinical trials. The R21 mechanism is intended to encourage exploratory and developmental research projects by providing support for the early and conceptual stages of these projects. These studies may involve considerable risk, but may lead to a breakthrough in a particular area, or to the development of novel techniques, agents, methodologies, models, or applications that could have a major impact on a field of cancer research (pre-clinical or clinical)."
40,FY 2021 SBIR/STTR Phase I Release 1,DE-FOA-0002359,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Office of Science,"The objectives of the SBIR/STTR programs include increasing private sector commercialization of technology developed through DOE-supported research and development (R&D), stimulating technological innovation in the private sector, encouraging participation by women-owned and minority-owned small businesses, and improving the return on investment from Federally-funded research for economic and social benefits to the nation. DOE will support high-quality research or R&D on innovative concepts concerning important mission-related scientific or engineering problems and opportunities that have high potential for commercialization. The DOE SBIR/STTR Programs do not support either basic science or demonstration projects. Other than different eligibility requirements (see Section III – Eligibility Information), the major difference between the SBIR and STTR programs is that STTR grants must involve substantial cooperative research collaboration between the small business and a single Research Institution (see definitions in Appendices/Reference Material at the end of this FOA). However, it should be noted that the SBIR program also permits substantial collaboration between the small business and other organizations, including Research Institutions. The difference is that in SBIR, the collaboration is optional, while in STTR, the collaboration is required and must be cooperative in nature. An important goal of the SBIR/STTR programs is the commercialization of DOE-supported research or R&D. Following the start of Phase I, DOE encourages its awardees to begin thinking about and seeking commitments from private sector or Federal non-SBIR/STTR funding sources in anticipation of Phases II and III. The commitments should be obtained prior to the Phase II grant application submission. The commitment for Phase III may be made contingent on DOE-supported research or R&D meeting some specific technical objectives in Phase II, which if met, would justify funding to pursue further development for commercial purposes in Phase III. For Phase I applicants, more details will be provided in the Phase II FOA. Under Phase III, it is intended that non-SBIR/STTR funds be used by the small business to pursue commercial applications of the R&D. That is, the non-SBIR/STTR Federal funding pays for research or R&D meeting DOE mission-related objectives identified by DOE Phases I and II; non-SBIR/STTR capital provides follow-on developmental funding to meet commercial objectives for Phase III. Additionally, under Phase III, Federal agencies may award non-SBIR/STTR funded follow-on grants or contracts to Phase I and Phase II awarded projects for (1) products or processes that meet the mission needs of those agencies, or (2) further research or R&D. The competition for SBIR/STTR Phase I and Phase II awards satisfies any competition requirement of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act, and the Competition in Contracting Act. Therefore, an agency that funds an SBIR/STTR Phase III project is not required to conduct another competition in order to satisfy those statutory provisions. The receipt of earlier Phase funding does not represent any commitment or obligation to fund a later Phase"
41,Visualization Methods and Tools Development for Enhancing Cancer Moonshot Data (R33 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-CA-20-044,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) as a part of its Beau Biden Cancer Moonshot Initiative invites submission of applications requesting support for projects that will accelerate cancer research. Specifically, this FOA falls under a scientific priority designated by the Blue Ribbon Panel (BRP) as Recommendation J, the development of New Enabling Cancer Technologies. The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to stimulate the development of new cancer data visualization methods and tools that have the potential to make data aligned with the Cancer Moonshot more explorable and interpretable by the broader cancer research community. This FOA supports the development of new, full-featured data visualization tools for investigator-specified, Moonshot-aligned use cases that enable a broader community of users to explore and gain insights from data emerging from or aligned with one or more of the Cancer Moonshot areas."
42,NLM Information Resource Grants to Reduce Health Disparities (G08 Clinical Trial Not Allowed).,PAR-20-283,"Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) solicits resource grant applications for projects that will bring useful, usable health information to health disparity populations and their health care providers. Access to useful, usable, understandable health information is an important factor when making health decisions. Proposed projects should exploit the capabilities of computer and information technology and health sciences libraries to bring health-related information to consumers and their health care providers. Because this FOA focuses on providing health information to health disparity populations, institutions with demonstrated commitment to the needs of health disparity communities (including Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU), Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) and other Minority-Serving Institutions (MSI)) are encouraged to apply."
43,NAWCA FY21 U.S. Small Grants,F21AS00157,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Fish and Wildlife Service,"The U.S. Small Grants Program is a competitive, matching grants program that supports public-private partnerships carrying out projects in the United States that further the goals of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act. Projects must involve only long-term protection, restoration, enhancement and/or establishment of wetland and associated upland habitats to benefit migratory birds. The program requires a 1:1 non-federal match and research funding is ineligible. This program supports the DOI and FWS mission of protecting and managing the nation's natural resources by collaborating with partners and stakeholders to conserve land and water and to expand outdoor recreation and access."
44,Research to Improve Native American Health (R21 Clinical Trials Optional),PAR-20-214,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to support developmental/exploratory studies in preparation for health promotion, disease prevention, treatment, or treatment services research to improve health in Native American (NA) populations.  Applications may include 1) etiologic research, where there is a significant gap in knowledge, that will directly inform intervention development or adaptations, 2) research to develop and pilot test new or adapted interventions for feasibility, acceptability, and scalability, 3) research to test the short-term efficacy of interventions, 4) where a sufficient body of knowledge on intervention efficacy exists, research on strategies to overcome barriers to the adoption, integration, scale-up, and sustainability of effective interventions.  Existing data suggest that significant acute and chronic disease inequities exist for NA populations.  Concurrently, NA populations experience unique sociopolitical, historical, and environmental stressors and risks that may exacerbate health conditions and/or impact the effectiveness of existing solutions to address the conditions. They also possess unique strengths and resiliencies that can mitigate stressors or inform intervention strategies. Through this announcement, culturally informed exploratory/developmental research is sought that builds upon community knowledge, resources, and resilience to provide foundational knowledge for future science-based, culturally appropriate solutions to reduce morbidity and mortality through identification and remediation of precursors to diseases and disorders and through culturally informed treatment.  For the purposes of this FOA, Native Americans include the following populations: Alaska Natives, American Indians (whose ancestral lands fall at least partially within the U.S. mainland border), and Native Hawaiians.  The term Native Hawaiian means any individual any of whose ancestors were natives, prior to 1778, of the area which"
45,Intervention Research to Improve Native American Health (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-238,"Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesCity or township governmentsState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to support research on interventions to improve health in Native American (NA) populations. This includes 1) etiologic research, where there is a significant gap in knowledge, that will directly inform intervention development or adaptations, 2) research that develops, adapts, or tests the efficacy or effectiveness of health promotion and disease prevention interventions, 3) research that tests culturally informed treatment or recovery interventions and 4) where a sufficient body of knowledge on intervention efficacy exists, research on dissemination and implementation that develops and tests strategies to overcome barriers to the adoption, integration, scale-up, and sustainability of effective interventions. Existing data suggest that significant acute and chronic disease inequities exist for NA populations. Concurrently, NA populations experience unique sociopolitical, historical, and environmental stressors and risks that may exacerbate health conditions and/or impact the effectiveness of existing solutions to address the conditions. They also possess unique strengths and resiliencies that can mitigate stressors or inform intervention strategies. Through this initiative, intervention and related research is sought to build upon community knowledge, resources, and resilience to test science-based, culturally appropriate solutions to reduce morbidity and mortality through identification and remediation of precursors to diseases and disorders and through culturally informed treatment. Interventions should be designed with a consideration for sustainability within the communities where they are tested, and have the flexibility to be readily adapted, disseminated, and scaled up to other communities where culturally appropriate. For the purposes of this FOA, Native Americans include the following populations: Alaska Natives, American Indians (whose ancestral lands fall at least partially within the U.S. ma"
46,Innovative Research in Cancer Nanotechnology (IRCN) (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-284,"State governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) entitled ""Innovative Research in Cancer Nanotechnology (IRCN)"" encourages applications promoting transformative discoveries in cancer biology and/or oncology through the use of nanotechnology. Proposed projects should address major barriers in cancer biology and/or oncology using nanotechnology and should emphasize mechanistic studies toward fundamental understanding of nanomaterial and/or nanodevice interactions with biological systems. These studies should be performed in context of research concerning the delivery of nanoparticles and/or nano-devices to desired and intended cancer targets in vivo and/or characterization of detection and diagnostic devices in vitro. IRCN awards are expected to produce fundamental knowledge to aid future and more informed development of nanotechnology-based cancer interventions."
47,"DoD Rare Cancers, Concept Award",W81XWH-20-RCRP-CA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 RCRP Concept Award supports highly innovative, untested, potentially groundbreaking novel concepts in rare cancers. The Concept Award is not intended to support an incremental progression of an already established research project; instead, it allows Principal Investigators (PIs) the opportunity to pursue serendipitous observations. Preliminary data are not required. This award mechanism supports high-risk studies that have the potential to reveal entirely new avenues for investigation. Applications must describe how the new idea will enhance the existing knowledge of rare cancers or develop an innovative and novel course of investigation. Research completed through a Concept Award may generate sufficient preliminary data to enable the PI to prepare an application for future research."
48,"DoD Rare Cancers, Idea Development Award",W81XWH-20-RCRP-IDA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 RCRP Idea Development Award mechanism promotes new ideas that are still in the early stages of development and have the potential to yield impactful data and new avenues of investigation. This award supports conceptually innovative, high-risk/high-reward research that could lead to critical discoveries or major advancements that will accelerate progress toward eradicating deaths and suffering from rare cancers. Applications should include a well-formulated, testable hypothesis based on strong scientific rationale. "
49,Plasma Physics,PD-20-1242,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Proposals in the area of plasma physics submitted to the Division of Physics that are not governed by another solicitation (such as CAREER), must be submitted either to the Division-wide solicitation: Division of Physics: Investigator-Initiated Research Projects or to the NSF/DOE Partnership in Basic Plasma Science and Engineering solicitation.


Proposals addressing multi-disciplinary topics in plasma science appropriate for Physics-led partnerships with programs in the NSF Directorates for Geosciences and Engineering, or for joint consideration with the Department of Energy, Office of Science, Fusion Energy Sciences (DOE/SC/FES) should be submitted to the NSF/DOE Partnership in Basic Plasma Science and Engineering solicitation.


Proposals in the area of plasma physics for consideration by NSF meta-programs such as WoU-MMA [NSF PD 18-5115] and CDS&E [NSF PD 12-8084], proposals for efforts to be considered jointly with agencies other than DOE/SC/FES, and/or proposals for long-duration efforts and midscale instrumentation investments should be submitted to the Division-wide solicitation: Division of Physics: Investigator-Initiated Research Projects.


---


Plasma Physics is a study of matter and physical systems whose intrinsic properties are governed by collective interactions of large ensembles of free charged particles. 99.9% of the visible Universe is thought to consist of plasmas. The underlying physics of the collective behavior in plasmas has applications to space physics and astrophysics, materials science, applied mathematics, fusion science, accelerator science, and many branches of engineering.


The Plasma Physics program supports research that can be categorized by several broad, sometimes overlapping, sub-areas of the discipline, including: magnetized plasmas in the laboratory, space, and astrophysical environments; high energy density plasmas; low temperature plasmas; dusty, ultra-cold, and otherwise strongly coupled plasmas; non-neutral plasmas; and intense field-matter interaction in plasmas. The focus of the Plasma Physics program is to generate an understanding of the fundamental principles governing the physical behavior of a plasma via collective interactions of large ensembles of free charged particles, as well as to improve the basic understanding of the plasma state as needed for other areas of science and engineering.


Principal Investigators (PIs) are encouraged to consider including specific efforts to increase diversity of the plasma physics community and broaden participation of under-represented groups in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) as Broader Impacts of proposed work. Development of new undergraduate and graduate plasma physics curricula, orcurricula enhancement to include plasma physics topics in other courses, at institutions lacking such coursework is similarly encouraged.


NSF recognizes that some research projects within this Program may require more than three years to realize demonstrable research outcomes. For such projects, PIs are encouraged to consult the above Program Director to discuss the possibility of submitting a proposal of 4- or 5-year duration.


Some Plasma Physics-related activities are supported primarily by other NSF Programs. Proposals focused on the physical properties of individual or a small number of atoms or molecules, or optical physics, should be directed to the Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics Program within the Division of Physics. Proposals focused on understanding astrophysical systems should be directed to the Division of Astronomical Sciences. Proposals focused on understanding the Geospace environment or the Sun-Earth interactions should be directed to an appropriate program within the Geospace Section of the Division of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences. Proposals focused on development of new materials using plasmas should be directed to an appropriate program in the Division of Materials Research. Proposals focused on plasma-assisted manufacturing should be directed to the Division of Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation. Finally, proposals focused on use of plasmas for environmental and reaction engineering, environmental sustainability, combustion systems, or engineering of biomedical systems should be directed to an appropriate program within the Division of Chemical, Bioengineering, Environmental and Transport systems.


The other NSF programs coordinate the plasma physics aspects of their proposal portfolio with the Plasma Physics program."
50,"DoD Kidney Cancer, Clinical Research Nurse Development Award",W81XWH-20-KCRP-CRNDA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The inclusion of clinical trial research nurses on a multi-disciplinary clinical research team isthought to be a valuable asset in executing the day-to-day management of a clinical trial. Clinical research nurses (CRNs) perform an essential role to ensure that the integrity and quality of clinical trials are maintained while also safeguarding the welfare of clinical research and/or trial participants. CRNs are involved in all aspects of the clinical trial continuum from the initial development of a trial protocol through post study patient care, trial closeout, and the dissemination of research findings (please refer to Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 for references regarding CRNs). During the past 20 years there has been an increase in the number of CRNs aswell as a rise in training and certification programs for this specialty, albeit the overall number of nurses with clinical trial research expertise remains low (Poston, 2010). Some factors that have impeded a more significant increase in CRNs are lack of educational resources, limited financialsupport, and ability to access hands-on training by experienced CRNs and in research settings. The intent of the Clinical Research Nurse Development Award is to support research that allows the preparation of nurses for the kidney cancer CRN specialization through a mentored research training approach.Clinical research requires a team of collaborating members and is most productive in settings where all team members are experienced and striving to work at the top of their capacity to advance novel therapeutics or the medical treatment field. Developing a workforce of highly skilled and knowledgeable CRNs requires a comprehensive, interdisciplinary clinical research experience to foster active roles in clinical trial management, protocol adherence, industry/institution and regulatory collaborations, and patient education. The FY20 KCRP Clinical Research Nurse Development Award funds research that is supported by mentoring partnerships between a clinician (i.e., physician, physician scientist, or equivalent) and a CRN coordinator (or equivalent) to pilot a CRN fellowship program that will enable the advancement of credentialed nurses to pursue dynamic careers in collaborative kidney cancer clinical research.The Clinical Research Nurse Development Award requires more than one Principal Investigator (PI). One PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The other PI will be identified as a Partnering PI. Both PIs should contribute significantly to the development of the proposed research project, including the Project Narrative, Statement of Work (SOW), and other required components. If recommended for funding, each PI will be named to an individual award within the recipient organization. For individual submission requirements for the Initiating and Partnering PIs, refer to Section II.D.2, Content and Form of the Application Submission.Key components of this award mechanism are as follows:Research Approach: The proposed research project must have high potential to lead to or make breakthroughs in kidney cancer. The proposal must pursue a kidney cancer project and explicitly state the involvement of the CRN trainees in conducting and assessing the clinical trial research project with sufficient detail to be evaluated in the context of the complete training program.The feasibility of the research design and methods should be well defined, and a clear plan should be articulated as to how the proposed goals of the project can be achieved. The inclusion of preliminary data relevant to kidney cancer and the proposed project is encouraged but not required.  Any preliminary data provided should be from the PI and Partnering PI; additionally, required resources should be identified and supported through documentation.Impact: Research supported by the Clinical Research Nurse Development Award will have the potential for a major impact and accelerate progress toward ending kidney cancer and/or improving patient care for those participating in kidney cancer clinical trials. The impact may be short-term or long-term but must move beyond an incremental advance. Applications are expected to identify the kidney cancer patients or at-risk individuals who would ultimately benefit from the proposed research.Principal Investigators (PIs): Each application must include one pair of PIs, an equalpartnership between a clinician and a CRN coordinator (or equivalent). The two PIs of the KCRP Clinical Research Nurse Development Award are the mentors of the proposed researchnurse development program. The clinician PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The CRN coordinator (or equivalent) PI will be identified as the Partnering PI. The clinician PI must be the PI, co-PI, or lead of active clinical trials and/or research. The CRN coordinator (or equivalent) must have at least 2 years of cancer or oncology clinical trial research nurse experience. At least one of the PIs in this partnership must demonstrate clinical research experience in kidney cancer. Both PIs should be involved in writing the project narrative, the program’s development plan for future research nurse trainees, and other application components. The PIs do not need to be from the same institution, although an established collaboration must be clearly detailed, and at least one of the PIs must be at the same institution of (prospective) CRN trainees. The proposed research project and career development plan must focus on kidney cancer. Applications must emphasize both PIs’ potential for success in developing two or more kidney cancer clinical trial research nurses based on their prior track record as mentors, prior experience in developing research training programs, and/or prior experience in kidney cancer clinical research.Mentors/PIs: The mentors (clinician and CRN coordinator) must possess the appropriate expertise and experience in kidney cancer clinical research, clinical trial research, and/or patient care, to include recent publications, active peer-reviewed kidney cancer funding, and clear demonstration of a commitment to guiding the trainees’ development into kidney cancer clinical trial research nurses. The mentors must provide a plan that ensures trainees will have access to clinical trial patients in order to gain hands-on research experience and training (e.g., evidence of an active clinical trial). The application must show how the combined experiences of the mentors will support the KCRP Clinical Research Nurse Development Award intent of preparing nurses for kidney cancer research and CRN specialization. Mentorship by an investigator without an established record of mentoring clinical trial nurses may be offset by the overall strength of the career development plan. The mentors should showcase how they intend to dedicate time to this significant effort to directly train and advance trainees to become clinical trial research nurses.Training Environment: The institution where the research and training will occur will be evaluated to determine the presence of strong programs in interdisciplinary kidney cancer research. Successful applicants must have mechanisms in place to ensure that the clinical trial research nurse trainees will have exposure to kidney cancer scientists and clinicians, other trainees, and research teams on an ongoing basis (e.g., through journal clubs and seminars).Applications must demonstrate the training institution has a substantial history of conducting clinical trials and research in kidney cancer. Additionally, applications must demonstrate that there are active and open kidney cancer clinical trials and research at the institution and/or that new kidney cancer clinical trials will be opened and that kidney cancer patients are being recruited at the institution during the proposed period of performance for the training program. Institutions must also demonstrate commitment to retain the trainees or provide evidence of plans to integrate trainees into collaborating institutions following the period of training. This award is intended to support kidney cancer research and the career development of kidneycancer clinical trial research nurses.  Career Development Plan: Applications must provide details on the kidney cancer research-focused career development plan, and describe how it will facilitate the trainee’s career development as kidney cancer clinical trial research nurses, enabling trainees to conduct impactful research. The suitability of the career development plan for attaining the goals of this award mechanism will be a critical component of the evaluation. Applications should provide details on the expected qualities of the planned trainees, evidence of qualified candidates, the selection criteria and process for trainees, and training and research curriculum planned over the period of performance. The research and training curriculum should include a combination of hands-on approaches with both mentors (e.g., shadowing the mentors, shadowing clinicians and patients, attending laboratory meetings, learning laboratory research techniques, interacting with patients under supervision) and self-learning curriculums to be performed by the trainee (e.g., attending and participating in conferences, seminars, journal clubs, department-wide didactic meetings). If trainees have been identified, detailed biographical sketches should be included. Career development planning should include the duration of mentored research effort, planned interactions with the PIs and possibly other research and clinical staff, opportunities to gain tangible certifications or degrees (such as the Society of Clinical Research Associates’ international certification program, Certified Clinical Research Professionals), opportunities to gain independence in clinical trial research performance and/or to exercise skills in program leadership, team development, or project design. Consideration of the development of communications, networking, finance, regulatory, data management, or other business skills will also be evaluated. A multidisciplinary research approach to kidney cancer is highly encouraged but not required; however, if there are multidisciplinary aspects, they should be clearly outlined in the application.The proposed research must be relevant to active duty Service members, Veterans, military beneficiaries, and/or the American public.A Congressionally mandated Metastatic Cancer Task Force was formed with the purpose of identifying ways to help accelerate clinical and translational research aimed at extending the lives of advanced state and recurrent patients. As a member of the Metastatic Cancer Task Force, CDMRP encourages applicants to review the recommendations (https://health.mil/Reference-Center/Congressional-Testimonies/2018/05/03/Metastatic-Cancer-Research) and submit research ideas to address these recommendations provided they are within the limitations of this funding opportunity and fit within the FY20 KCRP priorities.The types of awards made under the Program Announcement will be assistance agreements. An assistance agreement is appropriate when the Federal Government transfers a “thing of value” to a “state, local government,” or “other recipient” to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States instead of acquiring property or service for the direct benefit and use of the U.S. Government. An assistance agreement can take the form of a grant or cooperative agreement. The level of involvement on the part of the Department of Defense (DoD) during project performance is the key factor in determining whether to award a grant or cooperative agreement. If “no substantial involvement” on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, a grant award will be made (31 USC 6304). Conversely, if substantial involvement on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, a cooperative agreement will be made (31 USC 6305), and the award will identify the specific substantial involvement. Substantial involvement may include, but is not limited to, collaboration, participation, or intervention in the research to be performed under the award. The award type, along with the start date, will be determined during the negotiation process.The anticipated direct costs budgeted for the entire period of performance for an FY20 KCRP Clinical Research Nurse Development Award will not exceed $300,000. Refer to Section II.D.5, Funding Restrictions, for detailed funding information.Awards will be made no later than September 30, 2021. For additional information refer to Section II.F.1, Federal Award Notices.The CDMRP expects to allot approximately $0.96M to fund approximately two Clinical Research Nurse Development Award applications. Funding of applications received is contingent upon the availability of Federal funds for this program as well as the number of applications received, the quality and merit of the applications as evaluated by scientific and programmatic review, and the requirements of the Government. Funds to be obligated on any award resulting from this funding opportunity will be available for use for a limited time period based on the fiscal year of the funds. It is anticipated that awards made from this FY20 funding opportunity will be funded with FY20 funds, which will expire for use on September 30, 2026.Research Involving Human Anatomical Substances, Human Subjects, or Human Cadavers: All DoD-funded research involving new and ongoing research with human anatomical substances, human subjects, or human cadavers must be reviewed and approved by the U.S. Army Medical Research and Development Command (USAMRDC) Office of Research Protections (ORP), Human Research Protection Office (HRPO), prior to research implementation. This administrative review requirement is in addition to the local Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Ethics Committee (EC) review. Local IRB/EC approval at the time of submission is not required. Allow a minimum of 2 to 3 months for HRPO regulatory review and approval processes. Refer to the General Application Instructions, Appendix 1, and the Human Subject Resource Document available on the electronic Biomedical Research Application Portal (eBRAP) “Funding Opportunities & Forms” web page (https://ebrap.org/eBRAP/public/Program.htm) for additional information. If the proposed research is cooperative (i.e., involving more than one institution), a written plan for single IRB review arrangements must be provided at the time of application submission or award negotiation. The lead institution responsible for developing the master protocol and master consent form should be identified and should be the single point of contact for regulatory submissions and requirements.Clinical trial costs will not be supported by this award, but correlative studies to clinical trials may be supported. A clinical trial is defined as a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes.Use of DoD or Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Resources: If the proposed research involves access to active duty military patient populations and/or DoD resources or databases, the application must describe the access at the time of submission and include a plan for maintaining access as needed throughout the proposed research. Refer to Section II.D.2.b.ii, Full Application Submission Components, for detailed information. Refer to the General Application Instructions, Appendix 1, for additional information."
51,Innovations in Graduate Education (IGE) Program,20-595,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Innovations in Graduate Education (IGE) program is designed to encourage the development and implementation of bold, new, and potentially transformative approaches to STEM graduate education training. The program seeks proposals that explore ways forgraduate students in research-based master’s and doctoral degree programs to develop the skills, knowledge, and competencies needed to pursue a range of STEM careers.


IGE focuses on projects aimed at piloting, testing, and validating innovative and potentially transformative approaches to graduate education. IGE projects are intendedto generate the knowledge required for their customization, implementation, and broader adoption. The program supports testing of novel models or activities with high potential to enrich and extend the knowledge base on effective graduate education approaches.


The program addresses both workforce development, emphasizing broad participation, and institutional capacity building needs in graduate education. Strategic collaborations with the private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), government agencies, national laboratories, field stations, teaching and learning centers, informal science centers, and academic partners are encouraged.



As a special emphasis under this solicitation, IGE seeks proposals that will result in a single cooperative agreement for the development and implementation of an IGE Innovation Acceleration Hub. The Hub will facilitate IGE awardee communications about research activities and outcomes and provide a platform for external stakeholder engagement. Only Hub proposals submittedto theNovember 2020 deadline will be considered for funding.

"
52,Computational and Data-Enabled Science and Engineering in Mathematical and Statistical Sciences,PD-20-8069,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The CDS&E-MSS program accepts proposals that engage with the mathematical and statistical challenges presented by (1) the ever-expanding role of computational experimentation, modeling, and simulation on the one hand, and (2) the explosion in production and analysis of digital data from experimental and observational sources on the other. The goal of the program is to promote the creation and development of the next generation of mathematical and statistical software tools, and the theory underpinning those tools, that will be essential for addressing these challenges.


The research supported by the CDS&E-MSS program will aim to advance mathematics or statistics in a significant way and will address computational or big-data challenges. Proposals of interest to the program must include a Principal Investigator or co-Principal Investigator who is a researcher in an area supported by the Division of Mathematical Sciences. The program welcomes submission of proposals that include multidisciplinary collaborations or provide opportunities for training through research involvement of junior mathematicians or statisticians.This program is part of the wider NSFComputational and Data-enabled Science and Engineering (CDS&E) enterprise."
53,Mathematical Sciences Infrastructure Program,PD-20-1260,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The primary aim of the Mathematical Sciences Infrastructure Program is to foster the continuing health of the mathematical sciences research community as a whole. In addition,the program complements the Workforce Program in the Mathematical Sciences in its goal to increase the number of well-prepared U.S. based individuals who successfully pursue careers in the mathematical sciences and in other professions in which expertise in the mathematical sciences plays an increasingly important role. The DMS Infrastructure program invites projects that support core research in the mathematical sciences, including: 1) novel projects supporting research infrastructure across the mathematical sciences community; 2) training projects complementing the Workforce Program, and 3) conference, workshop, and travel support requests that include cross-disciplinary activities or have an impact at the national scale. See below for more information about each category.


(1)Novel projects that serve to strengthen the research infrastructure: The DMS Infrastructure Program will consider novel projects that support and strengthen the research infrastructure across the mathematical sciences community. These projects most often cut across multiple sub-disciplines supported by DMS or involve interdisciplinary collaborations. The main goal of these projects should be to create a new research infrastructure or substantially enhance or transform an existing infrastructure with regional or national impact that goes substantially beyond the submitting institution or the location of the project. In case of questions regarding suitability of a project for the program, please email an Infrastructure Program Officer with a one-page description of the proposed project and a tentative budget. Full proposals must be submitted by the Full Proposal Deadline Date.


(2)Training projects: Training proposals submitted to DMS Infrastructure must not fit into one of the areas covered by solicitations in the Workforce Program in the Mathematical Sciences; they must be submitted by the Full Proposal Deadline Date; and they must:

A. Include a core research component for trainees in mathematical sciences;

B. Demonstrate promise for an impact at the regional or national scale that goes substantially beyond the submitting institution or the location of the project;

C. Satisfy at least one of the following criteria:

i. Serve as models to be replicated (an EHR review may be solicited),

ii. Promote partnerships with non-academic entities, minority-serving institutions, or community colleges, or

iii. Include a substantial broadening participation initiative.


In addition, all proposals of this type must clearly identify:


Goals to be achieved;
Specific new activities to be conducted, the way in which these address the goals, and the way in which the activities significantly differ from or enhance common practice;
Measurable outcomes for the project;
Plans and methods for assessment of progress toward the goals to be achieved, and for evaluation of the success of the activity;
Recruitment, selection, and retention plans for participants, including members of underrepresented groups;
Sustainability plans to continue the pursuit of the project's goals when funding terminates; and
A budget commensurate with the proposed activity.


3) Conferences, Symposia, Working Research Sessions, Travel Support Requests: Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciencesto obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, international travel support, and similar activities. Generally, proposals under this solicitation should first be considered for submission to the appropriate DMS disciplinary program subject to the lead-time requirements specified by that program; see the program web pages listed on the DMS home page.


Proposals under this solicitation submitted to DMS Infrastructure must show engagement in developing or enhancing the mathematical sciences research infrastructure in the U.S., including, but not limited to, broadening participation activities; professional development training; or involvement of students and early career researchers. Proposals must explain the regional or national scale impact of the activity that goes substantially beyond the submitting institution or the location of the event.


 Budgets and submission windows:

A. Proposals of this type with budgets not exceeding $50,000, which in accordance with NSF policy can be reviewed internally at NSF, should be submitted six to eight months in advance of the meeting date;

B. Proposals with budgets higher than $50,000 should be submitted by the Full Proposal Deadline Date that occurs at least six months prior to the event in order to allow time for external review."
54,2020 Human Exploration Research Opportunities (HERO),80JSC020N0001,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",NASA Johnson Space Center,"NASA Human Exploration Research Opportunities (HERO) Released


A National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Research Announcement (NRA), entitled, “Human Exploration Research Opportunities (HERO)” (80JSC020N0001), has been released. This NRA will solicit applied research in support of NASA’s Human Research Program (HRP). This NRA is available through the NASA Research Opportunities homepage at: https://tinyurl.com/HERO20OVERVIEW.


The research will fall into one or more categories corresponding to HRP’s five Elements: Space Radiation, Human Health Countermeasures, Exploration Medical Capability, Human Factors and Behavioral Performance, and Research Operations and Integration. This NRA covers all aspects of research to provide human health and performance countermeasures, knowledge, technologies, and tools to enable safe, reliable, and productive human space exploration.

Awards generally range from under $100K per year for focused, limited efforts (e.g., data analysis) to $1M per year for extensive activities (e.g., development of scientific hardware) and will be made as grants. The funds available for awards in each research opportunity offered in this NRA range from less than one million to several million dollars. This range allows selection from a few to as many as a dozen proposals depending on the program objectives and the submission of proposals of merit. The period of performance for an award can range from one to five years. All categories of United States (U.S.) institutions are eligible to submit proposals in response to this NRA. Any changes or modifications to any of these guidelines will be specified in the descriptions of the relevant research opportunities in the solicited research response area appendices of this solicitation.

Details of the topics will be given in the solicited research response area appendices of the NRA. Unless otherwise specified, appendices will use a two-step solicitation process requiring that a compliant and relevant Step-1 proposal be submitted in order to be considered to be invited to submit a Step-2 proposal.

Proposal due dates will be staggered throughout the HERO open period of July 31, 2020 to July 2021. The first proposal due date (for Step-1 proposals submitted in response to Appendices A and B) is September 1, 2020. The electronic submission of each is required by the due date for proposal submission.

Proposal due dates are given in the NRA and the solicited research response area appendices, which will be posted at https://nspires.nasaprs.com. Interested proposers should monitor https://nspires.nasaprs.com or register and subscribe to the Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate (HEOMD) electronic notifications system through the NASA Solicitation and Proposal Integrated Review and Evaluation System (NSPIRES) account subscription services. New program elements or amendments to this NRA through July 2021 will be posted in NSPIRES, after which time release of a subsequent HERO NRA is planned.

All categories of United States (U.S.) institutions are eligible to submit proposals in response to the NRA. Principal Investigators may collaborate with universities, Federal Government laboratories, the private sector, and state and local government laboratories. In all such arrangements, the applying entity is expected to be responsible for administering the project according to the management approach presented in the proposal. NASA’s policy is to conduct research with non-U.S. organizations on a cooperative, no exchange-of-funds basis.

Thank you for your continued interest in NASA. Please refer to the solicitation document for contact information."
55,Validation Studies of Analytical Methods for Dietary Supplement Constituents (Admin Supp - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-252,"Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The rigor and reproducibility of research on dietary supplements is enhanced by rigorous characterization of key experimental resources and biological samples. The dissemination of analytical methods that are validated to accurately and reliably characterize dietary supplements and quantify their constituents and/or metabolites is vital for both basic and clinical research. This FOA builds on existing NIH awards to support the performance and publication of formal single-laboratory validation studies of analytical methods for dietary supplements and other natural products. The method(s) proposed for validation must be used to identify and/or quantify dietary supplement-relevant ingredients or constituents (i.e., active or marker chemical compounds, adulterants, contaminants) or their metabolites in experimental reagents, raw materials, and/or clinical specimens (e.g., urine or plasma samples). The method(s) must already be developed or utilized in fulfillment of the active parent grant's specific aims. Candidate constituents for method validation studies include (but are not limited to): phytochemicals, nutrients, and potentially deleterious substances such as pesticides and mycotoxins. Multi-laboratory validation studies will not be supported through this FOA."
56,"Investigator-Initiated Research on Genetic Counseling Processes and Practices (R01, Clinical Trial Optional)",RFA-HG-20-048,"State governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this initiative is to support investigator-initiated research on genetic counseling processes and practices in genomic medicine. Research is needed to optimize the genetic counseling process in the context of limited resources. Grants will assess, innovate, scale, and/or research the implementation of novel genetic counseling practices to address the need for more healthcare professionals trained in genetic counseling; the uneven access to in-person genetic counseling across U.S. health care systems, and the challenges of effective and efficient communication of genomic findings to clinicians, patients, and families."
57,"Ethical, Legal and Social Implications (ELSI) Small Research Grant (R03) Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-20-257,"State governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites Small Research Grant (R03) applications to study the ethical, legal and social implications (ELSI) of human genome research.  These applications should be for small, self-contained research projects, such as those that involve single investigators.  Of particular interest are projects that propose normative or conceptual analyses, including focused legal, economic, philosophical, anthropological, or historical analyses of new or emerging issues.  This mechanism can also be used for the collection of preliminary data and the secondary analysis of existing data."
58,"Ethical, Legal and Social Implications (ELSI) (Research R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-20-254,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites Research Project Grant (R01) applications that propose to study the ethical, legal and social implications (ELSI) of human genome research.  Applications may propose studies using either single or mixed methods.  Proposed approaches may include but are not limited to data-generating qualitative and quantitative approaches, legal, economic and normative analyses, and other types of analytical and conceptual research methodologies, such as those involving the direct engagement of stakeholders."
59,"Ethical, Legal and Social Implications (ELSI) Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant (R21) (Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-20-255,"Independent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant (R21) applications that propose to study the ethical, legal and social implications (ELSI) of human genome research.  These applications should propose single or mixed methods studies that break new ground, extend previous discoveries in new directions or develop preliminary data in preparation for larger studies.  Of particular interest are studies that explore the implications of new or emerging genomic technologies or novel uses of genomic information."
60,Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Diseases,20-585,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The multi-agency Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Diseases program supports research on the ecological, evolutionary, and social drivers that influence the transmission dynamics of infectious diseases. The central theme of submitted projects must be the quantitative or computational understanding of pathogen transmission dynamics. The intent is discovery of principles of infectious disease transmission and testing mathematical or computational models that elucidate infectious disease systems. Projects should be broad, interdisciplinary efforts that go beyond the scope of typical studies. They should focus on the determinants and interactions of transmission among any host species, including but not limited to humans, non-human animals, and/or plants. This includes, for example, the spread of pathogens; the influence of environmental factors such as climate; the population dynamics and genetics of reservoir species or hosts; the feedback between ecological transmission and evolutionary dynamics; and the cultural, social, behavioral, and economic dimensions of pathogen transmission. Research may be on zoonotic, environmentally-borne, vector-borne, or enteric pathogens of either terrestrial or aquatic systems and organisms, including diseases of animals and plants, at any scale from specific pathogens to inclusive environmental systems. Proposals for research on disease systems of public health concern to developing countries are strongly encouraged, as are disease systems of concern in agricultural systems. Investigators are encouraged to develop the appropriate multidisciplinary team, including for example, anthropologists, modelers, ecologists, bioinformaticians, genomics researchers, social scientists, economists, oceanographers, mathematical scientists, epidemiologists, evolutionary biologists, entomologists, parasitologists, microbiologists, bacteriologists, virologists, pathologists or veterinarians, with the goal of integrating knowledge across disciplines to enhance our ability to predict and control infectious diseases."
61,"DoD Combat Readiness, Rapid Development and Translational Research Award",W81XWH-20-S-CRRP,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The CRRP seeks to enhance medical capabilities and Force readiness at the point of greatestneed in order to save the most lives in trauma care scenarios, which may be complicated bycombat operations, limited resources, austere conditions, and/or mass casualty events. The intent of the FY20 CRRP RDTRA is to support research that will accelerate the movement of promising ideas into clinical applications, including healthcare products, technologies, and/or practice guidelines. Research under this award mechanism should represent a rapidadvancement or innovative “leap ahead” and have the potential for broadly applicable, cross- cutting advances benefiting military health and medicine as well as the general public.Applicants may leverage existing resources in translational research to address high-impact research ideas or unmet needs to enable the delivery of life-saving care to the Warfighter during prolonged and en route care in austere and combat environments. Research of interest mayinclude knowledge products, “knowledge resulting from research with the potential to improve individual or public health,”2 and solutions that can accelerate the introduction of military- relevant health products or technologies into clinical and/or operational use. For this awardmechanism, the definition of “leveraging” is as follows: An investigator basing a research project on existing resources in order to amplify potential gains in knowledge or accelerate technical maturity. Projects should consider the varied expertise levels of the medical providers, available resources, and the possible diverse environmental conditions in combat situations.Proposal/application submissions are encouraged to include characteristics relevant to military use in non-hospital settings in theater, but submissions that propose solutions to advance civiliantrauma care are not precluded, since civilian trauma and trauma care in the military are mutually influential, and may be co-occurring in certain situations.Preclinical research, including animal studies, that is already supported by substantial preliminary or published data and strongly validates clinical translation is appropriate for this award mechanism.Research involving human subjects and human anatomical substances is permitted; however, clinical trials are not allowed under this funding opportunity. A clinical trial is defined as a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes.The proposed research must be relevant to active duty Service members, Veterans, military beneficiaries, and/or the American public.The anticipated total costs budgeted for the entire period of performance for an FY20 CRRP RDTRA will not exceed $2M. Refer to Section II.D.5, Funding Restrictions, for detailed funding information.Awards will be made no later than September 30, 2021. For additional information refer to Section II.F.1, Federal Award Notices.The CDMRP expects to allot approximately $8.0M to fund approximately 4 RDTRA proposals/applications. Funding of proposals/applications received is contingent upon the availability of Federal funds for this program as well as the number of proposals/applications received, the quality and merit of the proposals/applications as evaluated by scientific and programmatic review, and the requirements of the Government. Funds to be obligated on any award resulting from this funding opportunity will be available for use for a limited time period based on the fiscal year of the funds. It is anticipated that awards made from this FY20 funding opportunity will be funded with FY20 funds, which will expire for use onSeptember 30, 2026.The USAMRDC executes its extramural research program primarily through the awarding of contracts and assistance agreements (grants and cooperative agreements). The type of instrument used to reflect the business relationship between the organization and the Government is at the discretion of the Government, in accordance with the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, as amended, 31 USC 6301-6308, which provides the legal criteria to select a procurement contract or an assistance agreement. An assistance agreement (grant or cooperative agreement) is appropriate when the Federal Government transfers a “thing of value” to a “state, local government,” or “other recipient” to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, instead of acquiring property or service for the direct benefit and use of the U.S. Government. An assistance agreement can take the form of a grant or cooperative agreement. If “no substantial involvement” on the part of the fundingagency is anticipated, a grant award will be made (31 USC 6304).Conversely, if substantial involvement on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, acooperative agreement will be made (31 USC 6305) and the award will identify the specific substantial involvement. Substantial involvement may include collaboration, participation, or intervention in the research to be performed under the award.A contract is required when the principal purpose of the instrument is to acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the U.S. Government.The award type, along with the start date, will be determined during the negotiation process. Please see Appendix 2, Section E, of the General Submission Instructions for more information.This BAA may not be used to support fundamental basic research: For this BAA, basic research is defined as research directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the fundamental aspects of phenomena and of observable facts without specific applications toward process or products in mind.Research Involving a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-Regulated Drug, Biologic, or Device: If the study proposed involves the use of a drug or biologic that has not been approved by the FDA for the proposed investigational use, evidence is required that an Investigational New Drug (IND) application that meets all requirements under the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, Part 312 (21 CFR 312) has been submitted or will be submitted to the FDA within 60 days of award. If the investigational product is a device, evidence is required that an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) application, that meets all requirements under 21 CFR 812, has been submitted or will be submitted to the FDA within 60 days of award. The Government reserves the right to withdraw funding if the IND or IDE application has not been submitted to the FDA within 60 days of the DoD award date or if the documented application status of the IND or IDE has not been obtained within 12 months of the award date.Research Involving Human Anatomical Substances, Human Subjects, or Human Cadavers: All DoD-funded research involving new and ongoing research with human anatomical substances, human subjects, or human cadavers must be reviewed and approved by the (USAMRDC Office of Research Protections (ORP), Human Research Protection Office (HRPO), prior to research implementation. This administrative review requirement is in addition to the local Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Ethics Committee (EC) review. Local IRB/EC approval at the time of submission is not required. Allow a minimum of 2 to 3 months for HRPO regulatory review and approval processes. Refer to the General Submission Instructions, Appendix 1, and the Human Subject Resource Document available on the electronic Biomedical Research Application Portal (eBRAP) “Funding Opportunities & Forms” web page (https://ebrap.org/eBRAP/public/Program.htm) for additional information. If the proposed research is cooperative (i.e., involving more than one institution), a written plan for single IRB review arrangements must be provided at the time of application submission or award negotiation. The lead institution responsible for developing the master protocol and master consent form should be identified and should be the single point of contact for regulatorysubmissions and requirements."
62,Fertility Status as a Marker for Overall Health (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-282,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"T?he purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to support exploratory/developmental research that explores the premise that fertility status can be a marker for overall health. Chronic conditions such as cancer, diabetes, and obesity can impair fertility, however, less is known about the extent to which fertility status can impact or act as a marker for overall health. Data suggest that infertility is not necessarily a unique disease of the reproductive axis but is often physiologically or genetically linked with other diseases and conditions. Recent epidemiologic studies demonstrate links between fertility status in both males and females and various somatic diseases and disorders. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that fertility status can be a window into overall health. Advancing this premise will require substantive involvement of experts in reproductive health/fertility along with expert in another non-reproductive specialty appropriate to the area of overall health being investigated, for example, experts in other fields such as epidemiology, or the somatic disease in question,. This FOA focuses on studies evaluating fertility as a marker for overall health, and therefore applications that look at the effects of a disease or disorder on fertility are outside of the scope of this program. Recruitment of new cohorts will not be supported by this FOA."
63,Fertility Status as a Marker for Overall Health (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-281,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity (FOA) is to support research that explores the premise that fertility status can be a marker for overall health. Chronic conditions such as concer, diabetes, and obesity can impair fertility, however, less is known about the extent to which fertility status can impact or acts as a marker for overall health. Data suggest that infertility is not necessarily a unique disease of the reproductive axis but is often physiologically or genetically linked with other diseases and conditions. Recent epidemiologic studies demonstrate links between fertility status in both males and females and various somatic diseases and disorders. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that fertility status can be a window into overall health. Advancing this premise will require substantive involvement of experts in reproductive health/fertility along with expert in another non-reproductive specialty appropriate to the area of overall health being investigated, for example, in other fields such as epidemiology, or the somatic disease in question. This FOA focuses on studies evaluating fertility as a marker for overall health, and therefore applications that look at the effects of the disease or disorder on fertility are outside of the scope of this program. Recruitment of new cohorts will not be supported by this FOA."
64,NCI Outstanding Investigator Award (R35 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-278,"Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites grant applications for the Outstanding Investigator Award (R35) in any area of cancer research. The objective of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Outstanding Investigator Award (OIA) is to provide long-term support to accomplished investigators with outstanding records of cancer research productivity who propose to conduct exceptional research. The OIA is intended to allow investigators the opportunity to take greater risks, be more adventurous in their lines of inquiry, or take the time to develop new techniques. The OIA would allow an Institution to submit applications nominating established Program Directors/Principal Investigators (PDs/PIs) for the NCI OIA. It is expected that the OIA would provide extended funding stability and encourage investigators to embark on projects of unusual potential in cancer research. The research projects should break new ground or extend previous discoveries toward new directions or applications that may lead to a breakthrough that will advance biomedical, behavioral, or clinical cancer research."
65,Secondary Analysis and Integration of Existing Data to Elucidate the Genetic Architecture of Cancer Risk and Related Outcomes (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-276,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsCity or township governmentsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"Through this funding opportunity announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) along with the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) and National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) encourages submission of applications proposing to conduct secondary data analysis and integration of existing datasets and database resources, with the ultimate aim to elucidate the genetic architecture of cancer risk and related outcomes (e.g., risk prediction or reduction, survival, or response to treatment, etc.). The goal of this initiative is to address key scientific questions relevant to cancer genomic and epidemiology by supporting the analysis of existing genetic or genomic datasets, in combination with other omics and environmental, clinical, behavioral, lifestyle, and molecular profiles data. Applicants are encouraged to leverage existing genetic data and perform innovative analyses of the existing data. Applications may include new research aims that are being addressed with existing data, new or advanced methods of analyses, or novel combinations and integration of datasets that allow the exploration of important scientific questions in genomic and epidemiology cancer research."
66,Secondary Analysis and Integration of Existing Data to Elucidate the Genetic Architecture of Cancer Risk and Related Outcomes (R21 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-20-277,"Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"Through this funding opportunity announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) along with the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) and National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) encourages submission of applications proposing to conduct secondary data analysis and integration of existing datasets and database resources, with the ultimate aim to elucidate the genetic architecture of cancer risk and related outcomes (e.g., risk prediction or reduction, survival, or response to treatment, etc.). The goal of this initiative is to address key scientific questions relevant to cancer genomic and epidemiology by supporting the analysis of existing genetic or genomic datasets, in combination with other omics and environmental, clinical, behavioral, lifestyle, and molecular profiles data. Applicants are encouraged to leverage existing genetic data and perform innovative analyses of the existing data. Applications may include new research aims that are being addressed with existing data, new or advanced methods of analyses, or novel combinations and integration of datasets that allow the exploration of important scientific questions in genomic and epidemiology cancer research."
67,"Assay development and screening for discovery of chemical probes, drugs or immunomodulators (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)",PAR-20-271,"Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsCounty governmentsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The goal of this FOA is identification of small molecules that function to elucidate the biology of disease as chemical probes or function as agonists or antagonists of disease target(s) for therapy or immunotherapy. The FOA is intended to support discovery research for the identification of validated hits relevant to health-related outcomes of participating NIH Institutes.  Stages of discovery research covered by this FOA include: 1) assay development for specific biological targets and disease mechanisms relevant to the mission of participating NIH Institutes with the intent to screen for small molecule compounds that show potential as probes for use in advancing knowledge about the known targets, identifying new targets, or as pre-therapeutic leads; 2) screen implementation high throughput target-focused approaches or moderate throughput phenotypic- and fragment-based approaches to identify initial screening hits; 3) hit validation, including implementation of secondary assays that are orthogonal to the primary assay, advanced cheminformatics analysis and initial medicinal chemistry inspection to prioritize the hit set, and follow-up assays to characterize mode and mechanism of action of the validated hits; 4) hit-to-lead optimization, including SAR to optimize target engagement, selectivity and to minimize chemical liabilities, ADME, PK and PD studies, and, if appropriate, in vivo modeling to test efficacy or biological effects."
68,NIEHS Research Intensive Short Courses and Educational Opportunities (NIEHS RISE) (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-ES-20-015,"State governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The intent of this FOA is to encourage applications to develop and conduct short-term research education activities with the goal of providing training to improve knowledge and skills needed to conduct environmental health research. Short courses submitted under this FOA are expected to include relevant intensive hands-on training in environmental health science topics. In addition to in-person instruction, courses that incorporate innovative or novel education models, such as project-based learning or virtual instruction, are encouraged."
69,"NIDA Core ""Center of Excellence"" Grant Program (P30 Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-20-267,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSmall businessesIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"NIDA Core Center of Excellence Grants (P30) are intended to bring together investigators currently funded by NIH or other Federal or non-Federal sources, to enhance the effectiveness of existing research and also to extend the focus of research to drug abuse and addiction. It is expected that a Center will transform knowledge in the sciences it is studying. Incremental work should not be the focus of Center activities; rather, new and creative directions are encouraged. An application should integrate and promote research in existing funded projects, to achieve new and creative directions. It is expected that individual core activities reflect a relationship to the integrating theme of the Center and the Center is expected to provide research opportunities and experiences to new investigators , and share findings, data and their resources, consistent with achieving the goals of the program."
70,"DoD Scleroderma, Idea Development Award",W81XWH-20-SRP-IDA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The Idea Development Award promotes ideas that are still in the early stages of development and have the potential to yield high-impact findings and new avenues of investigation. This award mechanism supports conceptually innovative high-risk/high-reward research that could lead to critical discoveries or major advancements in scleroderma research and/or improvements in patient care. Research projects should include a well-formulated, testable hypothesis based on strong preliminary data and scientific rationale. Submissions from and partnerships with investigators at Department of Defense (DoD) military treatment facilities and laboratories, and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers and research laboratories are encouraged.The following are significant features of the FY20 SRP IDA: Preliminary Data: Preliminary data are required but need not be from the scleroderma research field. Preliminary data may include unpublished or published results from the laboratory of the Principal Investigator (PI) or collaborators named on the application and/or data from the published literature relevant to scleroderma. Impact: The application should support research that seeks to understand the causes and progression of scleroderma and/or realizing improvements in patient care and/or quality of life. Innovation: Innovative research may introduce a new paradigm, challenge existing paradigms, look at existing problems from new perspectives, or exhibit other uniquely creative qualities that may include high-risk/potentially high-gain approaches to scleroderma research. Research that is merely an incremental advancement (the next logical step) is not considered innovative. Relevance to Military Health: The SRP seeks to support research that is relevant to the healthcare needs of military Service members, Veterans, and their families. Relevance to military health will be considered in determining relevance to the mission of the DHP and FY20 SRP during programmatic review. Investigators are strongly encouraged to consider the following characteristics as examples of how a project may demonstrate relevance to military health:○ Use of military or Veteran populations, biospecimens, data/databases, or programs in the proposed research○ Collaboration with DoD or VA investigators○ Involvement of military consultants (Army, Air Force) or specialty leaders (Navy, Marine Corps) to the Surgeons General in a relevant specialty area○ Description of how the knowledge, information, products, or technologies gained from the proposed research could be implemented in a dual-use capacity to address a military need that also benefits the civilian populationo Explanation of how the project addresses an aspect of scleroderma that has direct relevance to military Service members, Veterans, or other Military Health System beneficiaries, including environmental exposures.The proposed research must be relevant to active duty Service members, Veterans, military beneficiaries, and/or the American public. New Investigator Collaboration Option: The FY20 SRP IDA mechanism encourages applications in which an established scleroderma researcher (as demonstrated by current funding and recent publications) partners with a New Investigator in the early stages of their career. The New Investigator Collaboration Option is designed to support the continued development of promising independent investigators that are early in their faculty appointments. All New Investigators must meet specific eligibility criteria as described in Section II.C, Eligibility Information. If the New Investigator Collaboration Option is selected, one PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The Initiating PI cannot be a New Investigator. The other PI will be identified as a Partnering PI. Both PIs should contribute significantly to the development of the proposed research project, including the Project Narrative, Statement of Work (SOW), and other required components. If recommended for funding, each PI will be named to an individual award within the recipient organization. For individual submission requirements for the Initiating and Partnering PIs, refer to Section II.D.2, Content and Form of the Application Submission.The types of awards made under the Program Announcement will be assistance agreements. An assistance agreement is appropriate when the Federal Government transfers a “thing of value” to a “state, local government,” or “other recipient” to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States instead of acquiring property or service for the direct benefit and use of the U.S. Government. An assistance agreement can take the form of a grant or cooperative agreement. The level of involvement on the part of the DoD during project performance is the key factor in determining whether to award a grant or cooperative agreement. If “no substantial involvement” on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, a grant award will be made (31 USC 6304). Conversely, if substantial involvement on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, a cooperative agreement will be made (31 USC 6305), and the award will identify the specific substantial involvement. Substantial involvement may include, but is not limited to, collaboration, participation, or intervention in the research to be performed under the award. The award type, along with the start date, will be determined during the negotiation process.The anticipated direct costs budgeted for the entire period of performance for an FY20 SRP Idea Development Award will not exceed $300,000 for applications with a single PI or $450,000 if applying under the New Investigator Collaboration Option. Refer to Section II.D.5, Funding Restrictions, for detailed funding information.Awards will be made no later than September 30, 2021. For additional information refer to Section II.F.1, Federal Award Notices.The CDMRP expects to allot approximately $2.4M to fund approximately two Idea Development Award applications and two Idea Development - New Investigator Collaboration Option Award applications. Funding of applications received is contingent upon the availability of Federal funds for this program as well as the number of applications received, the quality and merit of the applications as evaluated by scientific and programmatic review, and the requirements of the Government. Funds to be obligated on any award resulting from this funding opportunity will be available for use for a limited time period based on the fiscal year of the funds. It is anticipated that awards made from this FY20 funding opportunity will be funded with FY20 funds, which will expire for use on September 30, 2026."
71,"DoD Scleroderma, Translational Research Partnership Award",W81XWH-20-SRP-TRPA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 SRP TRPA mechanism supports partnerships between clinicians and research scientists that will accelerate the movement of promising ideas in scleroderma into clinical applications. This award supports the development of translational research collaborations between two or more investigators to address a central problem or question in scleroderma in a manner that would be less readily achievable through separate efforts.Observations that drive a research idea may be derived from a laboratory discovery, population-based studies, or clinician’s firsthand knowledge of patients and anecdotal data. The ultimate goal of translational research is to move a concept or observation forward into clinical application that is relevant to active duty Service members, Veterans, other military beneficiaries, and the American public. However, members of the partnership should not view translational research as a one-way continuum from bench to bedside. The research plan must involve a reciprocal flow of ideas and information between basic and clinical science. There should be an intellectual synergistic partnership between the clinic and the laboratory.The success of the project must be supported by the unique skills and contributions of each partner. The proposed study must include clearly stated plans for interactions between the Principal Investigators (PIs) and institutions involved. The plans must include communication, coordination of research progress and results, and data transfer. Additionally, multi-institutional applications must provide an intellectual and material property plan to resolve potential intellectual and material property issues and to remove institutional barriers that might interfere with achieving high levels of cooperation to ensure the successful completion of this award.The FY20 SRP TRPA requires multiple PIs. At least two, and up to three PIs must partner in one overarching study. One partner in the collaboration must be a research scientist and another must be a clinician. In addition, one partner (research scientist or clinician) in the collaboration must be a New Investigator. Multi-institutional partnerships are encouraged. At least one member of the partnership must have experience in either scleroderma research or scleroderma patient care as demonstrated by active funding and/or recent publications. A proposed project in which the clinical partner merely supplies tissues or access to patients will not meet the intent of this award mechanism. One PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The Initiating PI cannot be a new investigator. The other PI(s) will be identified as a Partnering PI(s). All PIs should contribute significantly to the development of the proposed research project, including the Project Narrative, Statement of Work (SOW), and other required components. If recommended for funding, each PI will be named to an individual award within the recipient organization. For individual submission requirements for the Initiating and Partnering PIs, refer to Section II.D.2, Content and Form of the Application Submission. It is the responsibility of the PIs to describe how their combined expertise will better address the research question and explain why the work should be done together rather than through separate efforts.New Investigator Collaboration: The FY20 SRP TRPA mechanism requires that at least one of the PIs is an investigator in the early stages of their careers. The New Investigator Collaboration is designed to support the continued development of promising independent investigators that are early in their faculty appointments. All New Investigator PIs must meet specific eligibility criteria as described in Section II.C, Eligibility Information.This mechanism is intended to fund a broad range of translational studies, including, but not limited to, the following: Studies advancing/translating in vitro and/or animal studies to applications with human samples/cohorts. Late-stage preclinical work leading to/preparing for a clinical trial, e.g., Investigational New Drug (IND) application submission. Correlative studies that are associated with an open/ongoing or completed clinical trial and projects that develop endpoints for clinical trials. Animal studies must demonstrate potential for translation to patients.The following are significant features of the FY20 SRP TRPA: Preliminary Data: Preliminary data are required but need not be from the scleroderma research field. Preliminary data may include unpublished or published results from the laboratory of the PI or collaborators named on the application and/or data from the published literature relevant to scleroderma. Partnership: The success of the project should depend on the unique skills and contributions of each partner. Translation: The application should provide evidence for the reciprocal transfer of information between basic and clinical science, or vice versa, in developing and implementing the research plan. The application should demonstrate how the study will leverage clinical information to address knowledge gaps, in resulting outcomes, validate key research findings, expand upon potentially transformative results, and/or investigate novel findings. Describe how the research represents more than an incremental advancement in scleroderma research. Impact: The application should describe research that seeks to understand the causes and progression of scleroderma and/or realizing improvements in patient care and/or quality of life. Relevance to Military Health: The SRP seeks to support research that is relevant to the healthcare needs of military Service members, Veterans, and their families. Relevance to military health will be considered in determining relevance to the mission of the DHP and FY20 SRP during programmatic review. Investigators are strongly encouraged to consider the following characteristics as examples of how a project may demonstrate relevance to military health:○ Use of military or Veteran populations, biospecimens, data/databases, or programs in the proposed research.○ Collaboration with Department of Defense (DoD) or Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) investigators.○ Involvement of military consultants (Army, Air Force) or specialty leaders (Navy, Marine Corps) to the Surgeons General in a relevant specialty area.○ Description of how the knowledge, information, products, or technologies gained from the proposed research could be implemented in a dual-use capacity to address a military need that also benefits the civilian population.○ Explanation of how the project addresses an aspect of scleroderma that has direct relevance to military Service members, Veterans, or other Military Health System beneficiaries, including environmental exposures.The proposed research must be relevant to active duty Service members, Veterans, military beneficiaries, and/or the American public.The types of awards made under the Program Announcement will be assistance agreements. An assistance agreement is appropriate when the Federal Government transfers a “thing of value” to a “state, local government,” or “other recipient” to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States instead of acquiring property or service for the direct benefit and use of the U.S. Government. An assistance agreement can take the form of a grant or cooperative agreement. The level of involvement on the part of the DoD during project performance is the key factor in determining whether to award a grant or cooperative agreement. If “no substantial involvement” on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, a grant award will be made (31 USC 6304). Conversely, if substantial involvement on the part of the funding agency is anticipated, a cooperative agreement will be made (31 USC 6305), and the award will identify the specific substantial involvement. Substantial involvement may include, but is not limited to, collaboration, participation, or intervention in the research to be performed under the award. The award type, along with the start date, will be determined during the negotiation process.The anticipated direct costs budgeted for the entire period of performance for an FY20 SRP TRPA will not exceed $750,000. Refer to Section II.D.5, Funding Restrictions, for detailed funding information.Awards will be made no later than September 30, 2021. For additional information refer to Section II.F.1, Federal Award Notices.The CDMRP expects to allot approximately $2.4M to fund approximately two Translational Research Partnership Award applications. Funding of applications received is contingent upon the availability of Federal funds for this program as well as the number of applications received, the quality and merit of the applications as evaluated by scientific and programmatic review, and the requirements of the Government. Funds to be obligated on any award resulting from this funding opportunity will be available for use for a limited time period based on the fiscal year of the funds. It is anticipated that awards made from this FY20 funding opportunity will be funded with FY20 funds, which will expire for use on September 30, 2026."
72,Promoting Research on Music and Health: Phased Innovation Award for Music Interventions (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-266,"State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to promote innovative research on music and health with an emphasis on developing music interventions aimed at understanding their mechanisms of action and clinical applications for the treatment of many diseases, disorders, and conditions. Given the emphasis on innovation, little or no preliminary data are needed to apply under this FOA. Because of the need for a multidisciplinary approach, collaborations among basic researchers, translational science researchers, music intervention experts, other clinical researchers, music health professionals, and technology development researchers are encouraged. The FOA utilizes a phased R61/R33 funding mechanism to support mechanistic research and to evaluate the clinical relevance of music interventions. The R61 phase will provide funding to either investigate the biological mechanisms or behavioral processes underlying music interventions in relevant animal models, healthy human subjects, and/or clinical populations, or can be used to develop innovative technology or approaches to enhance music intervention research. The second R33 phase will provide support for further mechanistic investigations in human subjects or animal models, intervention development, or pilot clinical studies. The pilot clinical studies may focus on intervention optimization/refinement, feasibility, adherence, and/or identification of appropriate outcome measures to inform future clinical research. Transition from the R61 to the R33 phase of the award will depend on successful completion of pre-specified milestones established in the R61."
73,Using Human Cell Animal Chimera Brains to Study HIV Latency and Pathology R01 - Clinical Trials Not Allowed,RFA-DA-21-026,"Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Recent technical advancements have enabled generating human cell-mice chimeric brains by engrafting human iPSC-derived primitive neural progenitor cells and/or cord blood-derived microglial progenitor cells into neonatal mouse. In the chimeric brain, human neural progenitor cells or microglial cells differentiate, migrate, and distribute throughout the mouse brain. They are eventually functionally integrated into various brain regions. Such successes provide opportunities to define the structure, function, genetics and plasticity of functional neural networks containing human cells. It can also serve as a rodent model to study HIV infectivity, provirus activity, reservoir formation, and the neuropathogenesis of HIV infection. It allows the study of HIV and substance abuse comorbidity in the brain of a fully functional, awake, behaving animal from the single cell to neural circuitry levels."
74,"DoD Reconstructive Transplant, Investigator- Initiated Research Award",W81XWH-20-RTRP-IIRA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 RTRP Investigator-Initiated Research Award is intended to support studies that have the potential to make an important contribution to reconstructive transplant research, patient care, and/or quality of life. Though the RTRP Investigator-Initiated Research Award mechanism supports groundbreaking research, all projects must demonstrate solid scientific rationale with military-relevant utility. Multi-institutional collaborations among clinicians and research scientists are encouraged. Important aspects of this award mechanism include: • Study Design and Feasibility: The proposed study design should be clearly described, rigorous, and support maximal reproducibility and translational feasibility. A statistical plan with appropriate power analysis should be included, as applicable. • Impact: The short- and long-term impact of the proposed research should be clearly articulated. Projects must address at least one of the FY20 RTRP Focus Areas. • Military Relevance: All projects should be responsive to the healthcare needs of military Service members and/or Veterans recovering from traumatic injury, and/or their family members, caregivers or clinicians, as well as the general public. Collaboration with military researchers and clinicians is encouraged. • Preliminary Data: Observations that drive a research idea may be derived from laboratory discovery, population-based studies, a clinician’s first-hand knowledge of patients, or anecdotal data. Preliminary and/or published data that are relevant to reconstructive transplantation and that support the rationale for the proposed study must be included. Investigator-Initiated Research Award applications may focus on any phase of research from basic through translational, including preclinical studies in animal models, human subjects, human anatomical substances, as well as correlative studies associated with an existing clinical trial. Clinical trials are not allowed under this funding opportunity. A clinical trial is defined as a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes. Multiple PI Option: The Investigator-Initiated Research Award mechanism includes an option for up to four Principal Investigators (PIs). One PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The other PI(s) will be identified as Partnering PI(s). Initiating and Partnering PIs will each have different submission requirements, as described in Section II.D.2, Content and Form of the Application Submission; however, all PIs should contribute significantly to the development of the proposed research project, including the Project Narrative, Statement of Work (SOW), and other required components. If recommended for funding, each PI will be named to an individual award within the recipient organization. Multi-institutional collaborations are encouraged."
75,Computational and Data-Enabled Science and Engineering,PD-20-8084,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Advanced computational infrastructure and the ability to perform large-scale simulations and accumulate massive amounts of data have revolutionized scientific and engineering disciplines. The goal of the CDS&E program is to identify and capitalize on opportunities for major scientific and engineering breakthroughs through new computational and data analysis approaches. The intellectual drivers may be in an individual discipline or they may cut across more than one discipline in various Directorates.The key identifying factor is that the outcome relies on the development, adaptation, and utilization of one or more of the capabilities offered by advancement of both research and infrastructure in computation and data, either through cross-cutting or disciplinary programs.


The CDS&E program welcomes proposals in any area of research supported through theparticipating divisionsthat address at least one of the following criteria:


· Promote the creation, development, and application of the next generation of mathematical, computational and statistical theories and tools that are essential for addressing the challenges presented to the scientific and engineering communities by the ever-expanding role of computational modeling and simulation and the explosion and production of digital experimental and observational data.


· Promote and encourage integrated research projects that create, develop and apply novel computational, mathematical and statistical methods, algorithms, software, data curation, analysis, visualization and mining tools to address major, heretofore intractable questions in core science and engineering disciplines, including large-scale simulations and analysis of large and heterogeneous collections of data.


· Encourage adventurous ideas that generate new paradigms and that create and apply novel techniques, generating and utilizing digital data in innovative ways to complement or dramatically enhance traditional computational, experimental, observational, and theoretical tools for scientific discovery and application.


· Encourage ideas at the interface between scientific frameworks, computing capability, measurements and physical systems that enable advances well beyond the expected natural progression of individual activities, including development of science-driven algorithms to address pivotal problems in science and engineering and efficient methods to access, mine, and utilize large data sets.


The CDS&E program is not intended to replace existing programs that make awards that involve computation and the analysis of large data sets. Rather, proposals submitted to the CDS&E program must have a significant component of cyber development or cyber science that goes well beyond what would normally be included in these programs.PIs should ask for consideration and review as a CDS&E proposal only if the proposal addresses at least one of these additional cyber components. Any proposal submitted to the CDS&E program that does not satisfy at least one of the additional criteria listed above will be reviewed within the context of the individual program. A proposal that is requesting consideration within the context of CDS&E should begin the title with the identifying acronym ""CDS&E:""


Supplement requests to existing awards within a program that address one of the points above will also be considered.


Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences: The CDS&E program in MPS explicitly addresses the distinct intellectual and technological discipline lying at the intersection of applied mathematics, statistics, computer science, and the core science disciplines of astronomy, chemistry, physics, mathematics, and materials research. Proposals are expected to be relevant to mathematical and physical sciences.


Astronomy (AST): CDS&E encompasses those areas of inquiry where significant progress is critically dependent upon the application of new computational hardware, software, or algorithms, or upon the use of massive data sets. CDS&E encompasses fundamentally new approaches to large-scale simulation and to the analysis of large and heterogeneous collections of data, as well as research into the nature of algorithms and techniques that can be both enabled by data and enable more data-intensive research.


Chemistry (CHE):CDS&E encourages innovative approaches for new paradigms in algorithms, software design, and data techniques that impact chemistry research. Potential areas of focus include computational and data tool development for modeling, simulation, data processing and analysis, and data-driven chemical discovery. Successful submissions will produce new approaches to gaining fundamental chemical knowledge and understanding.


Materials Research (DMR): CDS&E includes projects that involve: the creative use of computation or high performance computing, particularly in conjunction with data-centric methods and data from simulation or experiment to advance fundamental challenging problems of materials research including the discovery or design of materials and materials systems with desired properties, the discovery or control of materials-related phenomena, or new states of matter; the creation, development, and application of computational and data-centric tools across fundamental materials research to advance fundamental understanding; the creation and application of novel techniques that utilize digital data from experiment, simulation, or both in innovative ways to complement or dramatically enhance traditional computational, experimental, and theoretical methods to discover new materials, new materials-related phenomena, or advance fundamental understanding of materials. Broader impacts may include a focus on infusing computation and data-centric approaches and the use of advanced cyberinfrastructure of the materials research community into education in materials and materials-related disciplines.


Mathematical Sciences (DMS): CDS&E includes the creation, development, and application of the next generation of mathematical and statistical theories and tools that will be essential for addressing the challenges presented to the scientific and engineering communities by the ever-expanding role of computational modeling and simulation on the one hand, and the explosion and production of digital and observational data on the other.


Physics (PHY): CDS&E includes ideas at the interface between scientific frameworks and computing capability that enable advances well beyond the expected natural progress of either activity. This includes the development of innovative computational approaches to science-driven algorithms, numerical models, and methods to access and mine large data sets to address pivotal problems in Physics. Physics CDS&E proposals may address science topics and goals within the scope of the domains supported by the Division of Physics. CDS&E proposals for PHY consideration should be submitted directly to the Division-wide solicitation:Division of Physics: Investigator-Initiated Research Projects (PHY). Potential PIs are encouraged to contact the cognizant Program Director(s) for the PHY domain program of interest prior to proposal submission. The due date for any proposal for PHY consideration is the due date for submission to the relevant PHY program.


Directorate for Engineering: The CDS&E program in engineering recognizes the importance of engineering in CDS&E and vice-versa. Many natural and built engineering processes, devices and/or systems require high fidelity simulations over disparate scales that can be interrogated, analyzed, modeled, optimized or controlled, and even integrated with experiments or physical facilities. This program accepts proposals that confront and embrace the host of research challenges presented to the science and engineering communities by the ever-expanding role of computational modeling and simulation on the one hand, and experimental and/or observational data on the other. The goal of the program is to promote the creation, development, and utilization of the next generation of theories, algorithms, methods, tools, and cyberinfrastructure in science and engineering applications.


Successful research supported by CDS&E in engineering will encompass all engineering and related disciplines that are potentially transformative and multidisciplinary and that address computational and/or data challenges. Proposals submitted to this program should draw on productive intellectual partnerships that synergistically capitalize upon knowledge and expertise in multiple fields or sub-fields in science or engineering and/or in multiple types of organizations. Proposals submitted to this program announcement should address the relevance of the proposed project to engineering.


Chemical, Bioengineering, Environmental and Transport (CBET): CDS&E in CBET includes the use of high performance and emerging computational tools and environments – beyond that supported by core programs – in advancing mathematical modeling, simulation and analysis to describe and analyze with greater fidelity, complexity and scale, engineering processes in chemical, biochemical and biotechnology systems, bioengineering and living systems, sustainable energy and environmental systems, and transport and thermal-fluids systems. Some topics of special interest: 1) Advanced modeling and analysis for water resources, earth systems, built environments, sustainable manufacturing, energy systems, food systems, and regional, national and/or global material flows, 2) Innovative modeling methodologies for turbulent flows and for flows of complex fluids and suspensions, 3) Developing advanced modeling capabilities for thermal fluids and combustion, 4) Extending validated molecular and/or macro-molecular models to the prediction of applications-level engineering problems, 5) Developing modeling strategies to simulate protein folding and native state protein-protein interactions, to estimate rates of fundamental biomolecular reactions, and to analyze multi-level regulatory metabolic structures containing spatio-temporal variability, and 6) Molecular and multiscale modeling, model-predictive control and optimization of complex chemical processes, including core supporting technologies of catalysis, reaction engineering, separations, and electrochemistry


Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation (CMMI): CMMI seeks to advance the future of manufacturing, the design of innovative materials and building technologies, infrastructure resilience and sustainability and tools and systems for decision-making, robotics and controls. The Division seeks CDS&E proposals that provide enabling tools to catalyze new knowledge and enhance research productivity in areas supported by CMMI. Proposals will be expected to demonstrate how they would promote major fundamental research advances through new computational and data analysis approaches. Researchers should submit proposals under the CDS&E guidelines and designate a CMMI core program as the secondary program. Proposals will be expected to demonstrate how they would advance new knowledge in the appropriate core program and, potentially, more broadly. Program websites may provide additional guidance on priority areas for new computational and data tools.


Electrical, Communications and Cyber Systems (ECCS): CDS&E in ECCS includes the development of innovative computational algorithms and the application of high performance and emerging computational tools for high-fidelity modeling and simulations of electronic, photonic and electromagnetic devices, components and systems in order to advance the frontiers in electronics, communications and sensing.


Office of AdvancedCyberinfrastructure (OAC): CDS&E in OAC addresses research in cyberinfrastructure itself with the clear potential to impact multiple research disciplines through the development of the paradigms, algorithms and processes needed to provide general CDS&E solutions as part of comprehensive, integrated, sustainable and secure cyberinfrastructure.





Due Dates



DirectorateDivision and ProgramSubmission Window or Target Date

ENG
Division of Chemical, Bioengineering, Environmental, and Transport Systems
September 01, 2020 - September 15, 2020


ENG
Division of Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation
September 01, 2020 - September 15, 2020


MPS
Division of Mathematical Sciences
September 01, 2020 - September 15, 2020


MPS
Division of Chemistry - Chemical Catalysis (CAT), Chemical Structure, Dynamics and Mechanisms-A (CSDM-A), Chemical Structure Dynamics and Mechanisms-B (CSDM-B), Chemical Synthesis (SYN), Chemical Theory, Models and Computational Methods (CTMC)
September 01, 2020 - September 30, 2020


MPS
Division of Materials Research
October 15, 2020


MPS
Division of Astronomical Sciences - Advanced Technologies and Instrumentation
November 16, 2020


CISE
Office of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure
October 01, 2020 - November 02, 2020


ENG
Division of Electrical, Communications and Cyber Systems
October 01, 2020 - November 02, 2020


MPS
Division of Chemistry - Chemical Measurement and Imaging (CMI), Chemistry of Life Processes (CLP), Environmental Chemical Sciences (ECS), and Macromolecular, Supramolecular and Nanochemistry (MSN)
October 01, 2020 - November 02, 2020


MPS
Division of Astronomical Sciences - Astronomy and Astrophysics Research Grants
September 15, 2020 - November 16, 2020


MPS
Division of Physics: Investigator-Initiated Research Projects
Due Date for the relevant PHY program


"
76,Countermeasures Against Chemical Threats (CounterACT) Exploratory/Developmental Projects (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-253,"State governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages applications for NIH Countermeasures Against Chemical Threats (CounterACT) exploratory/developmental (R21) projects. The mission of the NIH CounterACT program is to foster and support research that will advance development of new and improved therapeutics to mitigate the health effects of chemical threats. Chemical threats are toxic chemicals that could be used in a terrorist attack or accidentally released from industrial production, storage or shipping. They include traditional chemical warfare agents, toxic industrial chemicals, pesticides, and pharmaceutical-based agents. The scope of the research includes basic toxicological research on the chemical threat for the purpose of target and therapeutic hit identification, hit validation, lead optimization, and demonstration of in vivo ADME/Tox and efficacy. Projects supported by this FOA are expected to generate preliminary data that would facilitate the development of competitive applications for more extensive support from the NIH CounterACT Cooperative Agreement programs or other related initiatives."
77,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Predoctoral Fellowship to Promote Diversity in Health-Related Research (Parent F31-Diversity),PA-20-251,"Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Predoctoral Fellowship to Promote Diversity in Health-Related Research award is to enhance the diversity of the health-related research workforce by supporting the research training of predoctoral students from diverse backgrounds including those from groups that are underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research workforce. Through this award program, promising predoctoral students will obtain individualized, mentored research training from outstanding faculty sponsors while conducting well-defined research projects in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. The proposed mentored research training is expected to clearly enhance the individual's potential to develop into a productive, independent research scientist.    This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) does not allow candidates to propose to lead an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial,  but does allow candidates to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
78,NIDA Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Program Award in Substance Use and Substance Use Disorder Research (K12 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-249,"Small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages applications for institutional research career development (K12) programs that propose to support intensive supervised research training and career development experiences for clinician scientists (Scholars) leading to research independence in the area of substance use and substance use disorder research.
79,"DoD Pancreatic Cancer, Translational Research Partnership Award",W81XWH-20-PCARP-TRPA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 PCARP Translational Research Partnership Award supports partnerships between clinicians and research scientists that will accelerate the movement of promising ideas in pancreatic cancer toward clinical applications. This award supports the development of translational research collaborations between two independent investigators to address a central problem or question in pancreatic cancer in a manner that would be less readily achievable through separate efforts. One partner in the collaboration must function as a research scientist and the other partner as a clinician investigator. It should be clear that both have had equal intellectual input in the design of the research project. Multi-institutional and multi-discipline partnerships are strongly encouraged. At least one partner must have expertise either in pancreatic cancer research or pancreatic cancer patient care. Inclusion of experts from outside the pancreatic cancer field is encouraged. A proposed project in which the clinical partner merely supplies tissue samples or access to patients will not meet the intent of this award mechanism. Full support for large scale clinical trials is not expected; retrospective tissue analysis, correlative studies, or small pilot clinical trials are permitted.Significant features of the Translational Research Partnership Award: ·         Partnership: The success of the project should depend on the unique skills and contributions of each partner. ·         Translation: The application should provide evidence for the reciprocal transfer of information between basic and clinical science, or vice versa, in developing and implementing the research plan. Translational research may include correlative studies and/or development of or use of annotated biorepositories. The application should demonstrate how the study will leverage clinical information to address knowledge gaps in resulting outcomes, validate key research findings, expand upon potentially transformative results, and/or investigate novel findings. ·         Impact: The proposed research should indicate the potential to have a significant impact on pancreatic cancer research and/or patient care and have the potential to accelerate the movement of promising ideas (in prevention, diagnosis, detection, prognosis, treatment, and/or survivorship) into clinical applications. ·         Feasibility: The application should demonstrate that the investigators have access to the necessary specimens, data, and/or intervention, as applicable. ·         Preliminary Data: Unpublished results from the laboratory of the PIs or collaborators named on the application that are relevant to pancreatic cancer and the proposed research project, are required."
80,"DoD Pancreatic Cancer, Idea Development Award",W81XWH-20-PCARP-IDA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The PCARP Idea Development Award supports the development of innovative, high-risk/high-reward research that could lead to critical discoveries or major advancements that will accelerate progress in improving outcomes for individuals with pancreatic cancer. This award mechanism is designed to support innovative ideas with the potential to yield impactful data and new avenues of investigation.
Significant features of the Idea Development Award:
·         Impact: The proposed research is expected to make an important and original contribution to advancing the understanding of pancreatic cancer and ultimately lead to improved outcomes for individuals with pancreatic cancer. The project’s impact on both pancreatic cancer research and patient care should be articulated, even if clinical impact is not an immediate outcome.
·         Innovation: Research deemed innovative may represent a new paradigm, challenge existing paradigms, look at existing problems from new perspectives, or exhibit other highly creative qualities. Research may be innovative in study concept, research methods or technology, or adaptations of existing methods or technologies. Research that represents an incremental advance on previously published work is not considered innovative.
·         Personnel: Personnel are considered a crucial element of the FY20 PCARP Idea Development Award. At least one member of the research team should have experience in pancreatic cancer research as demonstrated by recent publications and funding. A biostatistician is encouraged to be included in the study team.
·         Research must be based on preliminary data: Although the proposed research must have direct relevance to pancreatic cancer, the required preliminary data, which may include unpublished results from the laboratory of the Principal Investigators (PIs), research team, or collaborators named on the application, may be from outside the pancreatic cancer research field. Research should also be based on a sound scientific rationale that is established through logical reasoning and critical review and analysis of the literature.
Partnering PI Option for Early-Career Investigator: The FY20 Idea Development Award mechanism is offering a higher level of funding for applications that propose to partner an experienced PI (i.e., Initiating PI) with an Early-Career Investigator (i.e., Partnering PI) wishing to pursue a career in pancreatic cancer research. The Initiating PI on the Idea Development Award must mentor and collaborate with the Early-Career Investigator (Partnering PI) to promote their career development in pancreatic cancer research. The Early-Career Investigator must meet specific eligibility criteria as described in Section II.C, Eligibility Information. The Initiating PI will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The Initiating and Partnering PIs each have different submission requirements, as described in Section II.D.2, Content and Form of the Application Submission; however, both PIs should contribute significantly to the development of the proposed research project, including the Project Narrative, Statement of Work (SOW), and other required components. If recommended for funding, each PI will be named to an individual award within the recipient organization. Multidisciplinary and multi-organizational projects are encouraged."
81,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Senior Fellowship (Parent F33),PA-20-247,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) awards senior individual research training fellowships to experienced scientists who wish to make major changes in the direction of their research careers or who wish to broaden their scientific background by acquiring new research capabilities as independent investigators in research fields relevant to the missions of participating NIH Institutes and Centers.  This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) does not allow candidates to propose to lead an independent clinical trial, but does allow candidates to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
82,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Fellowship for Students at Institutions with NIH-Funded Institutional Predoctoral Dual-Degree Training Programs (Parent F30),PA-20-248,"Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) will support students at institutions with NIH-funded institutional predoctoral dual-degree training programs. The purpose of the Kirschstein-NRSA, dual-doctoral degree, predoctoral fellowship (F30) is to enhance the integrated research and clinical training of promising predoctoral students, who are matriculated in a combined MD/PhD or other dual-doctoral degree training program (e.g. DO/PhD, DDS/PhD, AuD/PhD, DVM/PhD), and who intend careers as physician/clinician-scientists. Candidates must propose an integrated research and clinical training plan and a dissertation research project in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. The fellowship experience is expected to clearly enhance the individual's potential to develop into a productive, independent physician/clinician-scientist. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for candidates proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial, but does allow candidates to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
83,BRAIN Initiative: Proof of Concept Development of Early Stage Next Generation Human Brain Imaging (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-EB-20-001,"Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA), in support of the NIH Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, aims to support early stage development of entirely new noninvasive imaging methods or unusually bold approaches for existing noninvasive imaging methods that will lead to transformative advances in our understanding of the function and connectivity of the human brain. The FOA solicits small-scale projects to prove exceptionally innovative, original and/or unconventional concepts."
84,PrEP for HIV Prevention among Substance Using Populations (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-DA-21-024,"Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businessesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"NIDA is interested in research that addresses research gaps related to PrEP and its use among substance users, with the goals of improving PrEP management and implementation. Current US Public Health Service PrEP guidelines recommend PrEP for people who inject drugs (PWID) and mention alcohol and illicit drug use as potential concerns for clinical management. Only one clinical trial has evaluated PrEP among PWID and systematic data regarding the broader use of PrEP among substance users are limited. There is a need to better understand the effects of substance use on PrEP effectiveness and better inform PrEP implementation among substance users. More systematic data are needed regarding the impact of substance use on PrEP management and adherence, along with investigating potential unintended consequences of PrEP use that may be unique to substance users. This RFA is restricted to projects conducted in the United States, although foreign components are permitted where they support domestic research in the United States. Applications are encouraged that propose research in states and counties identified in the US Governments Ending the HIV Epidemic (EtHE) initiative as described here: Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America https://www.hiv.gov/federal-response/ending-the-hiv-epidemic/overview. Applications to work in locales that are not included in the EtHE initiative must provide an epidemiologic justification for their inclusion in the research."
85,"BRAIN Initiative:  Theories, Models and Methods for Analysis of Complex Data from the Brain (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)",RFA-EB-20-002,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This FOA solicits the development of theories, computational models, and analytical tools to derive understanding of brain function from complex neuroscience data. Proposed tools could include tools to integrate existing theories or formulate new theories; conceptual frameworks to organize or fuse data to infer general principles of brain function; multiscale/multiphysics models to generate new testable hypotheses to design/drive future experiments; new analytical methods to either support or refute a stated hypothesis about brain function.. It is expected that the tools developed under this FOA will be made widely available to the neuroscience research community for their use and modification. Investigative studies should be limited to model parameter estimation and/or validity testing of the tools being developed."
86,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Fellowship for Students at Institutions Without NIH-Funded Institutional Predoctoral Dual-Degree Training Programs (Parent F30),PA-20-245,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) will support students at institutions without NIH-funded institutional predoctoral dual-degree training programs. The purpose of the Kirschstein-NRSA, dual-doctoral degree, predoctoral fellowship (F30) is to enhance the integrated research and clinical training of promising predoctoral students, who are matriculated in a combined MD/PhD or other dual-doctoral degree training program (e.g. DO/PhD, DDS/PhD, AuD/PhD, DVM/PhD), and who intend careers as physician/clinician-scientists. Candidates must propose an integrated research and clinical training plan and a dissertation research project in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. The fellowship experience is expected to clearly enhance the individual's potential to develop into a productive, independent physician/clinician-scientist. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for candidates proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial, but does allow candidates to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
87,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Predoctoral Fellowship (Parent F31),PA-20-246,"For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Predoctoral Fellowship (Parent F31) award is to enable promising predoctoral students to obtain individualized, mentored research training from outstanding faculty sponsors while conducting dissertation research in scientific health-related fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers. The proposed mentored research training must reflect the candidates dissertation research project and is expected to clearly enhance the individuals potential to develop into a productive, independent research scientist.  This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for candidates proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial, but does allow candidates to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
88,U.S. Embassy New Delhi North India Office PAS Annual Program Statemen,ND-NOFO-20-115,"Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",U.S. Mission to India,"North India Office Public Affairs Section invites proposals for programs that strengthen cultural ties between the U.S. and India through cultural and exchange programming in the North India region that highlights shared values and promotes bilateral cooperation. All programs must include an American cultural element, or connection with American expert/s, organization/s, or institution/s in a specific field that will promote increased understanding of U.S. policy and perspectives. 
 
Examples of PAS Small Grants Program include, but are not limited to:  
 
·        U.S. experts conducting speaking tours/public talks, round-table discussions, workshops, etc.;  
·        Academic and professional lectures and seminars;  
·        Cultural and arts programs/workshops/ performances and exhibitions;  
·        Development of initiatives aimed at maintaining contacts with alumni of our exchange programs

(Please refer to the full announcement under related documents tab) "
89,Large scale mapping and/or molecular profiling of ensembles and/or cell-types mediating opioid action in the rodent brain (R01 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-241,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement aims to support research that employs innovative scalable technologies to inventory, register and profile the cellular ensembles and/or cell-types that produce and/or respond to opioids. Emphasis is on approaches that enable high-throughput single-cell resolution mapping, anatomical characterization and/or molecular profiling of cells identified as primary sources of, or pharmacological targets of, opioids in the brain and/or whose changes in activity associate with opioid-related behaviors in rodents."
90,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship (Parent F32),PA-20-242,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship (Parent F32) is to support research training of highly promising postdoctoral candidates who have the potential to become productive, independent investigators in scientific health-related research fields relevant to the missions of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers.  Applications are expected to incorporate exceptional mentorship.  This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for candidates proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial, but does allow candidates to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a sponsor or co-sponsor."
91,"DOD Chronic Pain Management, Translational Research Award",W81XWH-20-CPMRP-TRA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The intent of the FY20 CPMRP TRA is to support translational research that will accelerate the movement of evidence-based ideas in chronic pain management research into clinical applications, such as healthcare products, technologies, clinical practice guidelines, and/or models of care. TRA applications should explain how the proposed work will inform the development, refinement, and/or revision of existing standards of care, recommendations, or guidelines for managing chronic pain. Studies evaluating opioid-based therapeutic interventions are not allowed."
92,"DOD Chronic Pain Management, Investigator- Initiated Research Award",W81XWH-20-CPMRP-IIRA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The intent of the FY20 CPMRP IIRA is to support studies that have the potential to make significant advances in research, patient care, and/or quality of life in the FY20 CPMRP IIRA Focus Areas. IIRA applications may involve any phase of basic, translational, and clinically oriented research, including studies in animal models, research with human anatomical substances, and research with human subjects, as well as ancillary studies associated with an existing clinical trial; however, this award may not be used to conduct clinical trials. Multidisciplinary collaborations and innovative approaches are encouraged."
93,Community Interventions to Address the Consequences of the COVID-19 Pandemic among Health Disparity and Vulnerable Populations (R01- Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-237,"Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages applications to implement and evaluate community interventions testing 1) the impacts of mitigation strategies to prevent COVID-19 transmission in NIH-designated health disparity populations and other vulnerable groups; and 2) already implemented, new, or adapted interventions to address the adverse psychosocial, behavioral, and socioeconomic consequences of the pandemic on the health of these groups."
94,"Future Scholars for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Workforce Development Programs",FOA20AFRLRVKE0001,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher education",AFRL Kirtland AFB,"The Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico, is seeking innovative applications for Future Scholars under Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Workforce Development Programs. AFRL intends to award multiple grants and cooperative agreements, subject to the availability of funds.This is a five year open Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) accepting proposals from the date of publication for award of grants and cooperative agreements, subject to the availability of funds. Once the FOA has reached the five year period and/or funds are no longer available, the announcement will be modified to reflect the announcement as closed. This FOA will be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure awards are pertinent to the Government’s needs and ceiling values.Proposals may be submitted any time from the FOA issue date, until the final submission deadline for proposals and will be evaluated as they are received. Prior to submitting a proposal, Recipients are required to submit a Letter of Intent to the Points of Contact (POCs) listed in Section VII - Federal Awarding Agency Contact(s).This FOA supports STEM Workforce Development programs or projects that align with the Federal STEM Strategy and the DoD STEM Mission. This announcement encourages programs or projects that improve the capacity of education systems and communities to create impactful STEM educational experiences for students and teachers, and prepare the 21st century STEM workforce. AFRL’s Workforce Development programs or projects include, but are not limited to:Internships (High School through Doctoral)Fellowship Apprentice/Residency ProgramsCollege or University project-based learning programsFormal or informal workforce development programs or projects that align with the Federal STEM Strategy and DOD STEM MissionBefore submitting an application, Recipients are highly encouraged to read the Federal STEM Education Strategy and the DoD STEM’s Mission.AFRL anticipates a total of $50,000,000.00 of Federal funding for multiple awards under this FOA. Proposed efforts may range in size, complexity and periods of performance. The Government reserves the right to fund, in whole or in part, any, all, or none of the applications submitted in response to the FOA. Using the authority of 10 U.S.C. § 2192, AFRL will select proposed efforts that meet the anticipated FOA’s Funding Opportunity Description and clearly address the goals and objectives as stated in the FOA.Questions concerning this FOA may be emailed to:Sara Telano, Contracting Specialist, sara.telano@us.af.milLauren Davis, Contracting Specialist, lauren.davis.10@us.af.milEmail Subject: FOA-20-AFRL/RVKE-0001 QuestionsPlease note, Questions and Answers related to this FOA have been posted and are available for review in Grants.gov.Recipients are advised to complete the following steps, which are required for application submission:Obtain a Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number (including the plus 4 extension, if applicable) at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform.Register in Grants.gov to receive automatic updates when Amendments to a FOA are posted. Please note that applications will ONLY be accepted through Grants.gov. http://www.grants.gov/.Register with the System for Award Management (SAM) at https://www.sam.gov/. To be eligible for an award, the Recipient must (1) be registered in the SAM before submitting its application; (2) provide a valid unique entity identifier in its application; and (3) continue to maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by a Federal awarding agency.Recipients who are not registered with SAM.gov and/or Grants.gov should allow sufficient time to complete these requirements. It is suggested that the process be started as soon as possible. Questions relating to the registration process, system requirements, how an application form works, or the submital process must be directed to Grants.gov at 1-800-518-4726 or support@grants.gov. Questions relating to the SAM registration process must be directed to Federal Service Desk Contact Information at 1-866-606-8220 or at www.fsd.gov. AFRL representatives cannot answer Grants.gov or SAM registration questions.Recipients wishing to receive additional information on this FOA, including future amendments, should register in Grant.gov as soon as possible. Recipients will only receive an email when an amendment is posted on Grants.gov, if the Recipient is register for email notifications for the FOA in Grants.gov. The Government recommends email registration as soon as possible after the release of the FOA to ensure notice of any amendments or other FOA information."
95,"Aerospace Medicine, Clinical Research, Human Performance, and Expeditionary Medicine",BAA-AFRL-RQKHC-2016-0009,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force -- Research Lab,"The 711th Human Performance Wing intends to solicit White Papers under this announcement for Aerospace Medicine, Human Performance Research, and Expeditionary Medicine for innovative and state-of-the-art research to enhance the following fields of Force Health Protection, EN Route Care, Operational Medicine, Expeditionary Medicine, and Human Performance and Systems Integration.Amendment 3 - This notice is issued to make offerors aware of changes to the BAA. 1. This notice changes the “Estimated Program Cost:” FROM: The total program value is $97,000,000 with multiple awards ranging from $50,000 to $20,000,000. TO: The total program value is $117,000,000 with multiple awards ranging from $50,000 to $20,000,000.2. This notice changes the Contracting Office and point of contact information stated in “Submissions: White Papers must be submitted to the Contraction Point of Contact (POC)” FROM: Ms. Kimberly, Cerney, Contract Specialist, AFRL/RQKHC, kimberly.cerney@us.af.mil, or Mr. Clifford Johnson, Contracting Officer AFRL/RQKHC, clifford.johnson.4@us.af.mil. Postal Delivery Address: Bldg. 45, 2130 8th Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-7541.TO: Ms. Kimberly, Cerney, Contract Specialist, AFRL/RAKHC, kimberly.cerney@us.af.mil Ms. Alycia Armbruster, Contacting Officer, AFRL/ 2510 5th Street, Bldg. 840 Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 4533-7913, TO: Ms. Linda Armstrong, USAFSAM/FHS, linda.armstrong.7@us.af.mil, 2510 5th Street, Bldg. 840 Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 4533-7913.3. This notice changes the contact information in “Address contracting questions to:” FROM: Ms. Kimberly Cerney, Contract Specialist, AFRL/RQKHC, kimberly.cerney@us.af.mil; phone (937) 713-9857 or Mr. Clifford Johnson, Contracting Officer, AFRL/RQKHC, (937) 713-9922, clifford.johnson.4@us.af.mil. Postal Delivery Address: 2130 Eighth Street, Bldg. 45, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-7541.TO: Ms. Kimberly Cerney, Contract Specialist, AFRL/RAKHC, kimberly.cerney@us.af.mil; phone (937) 713-9857 or Ms. Alycia Armbruster, Contracting Officer, AFRL/RAKHC, (937) 713-9870, alycia.armbruster@us.af.mil. Postal Delivery Address: 2130 Eighth Street, Bldg. 45, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-7541.4. This notice changes section “II. Award Information, 2. Anticipated funding:” FROM: The table below is for the program, not per award FY16 FY17          FY18          FY19           FY20           TOTAL$16M $18.8M        $22.6M     $19.8M        $19.8M        $97MTO: The table below is for the program, not per awardFY16 FY17    FY18          FY19           FY20           TOTAL$16M $18.8M   $22.6M        $19.8M        $39.8M        $117M5. Attachment 7, Statement of Objectives, IV OPSEC, has been amended to include the following OPSEC language: The Contractor shall provide OPSEC protection for all sensitive/critical information and indicators involved in execution of this contract/Task Order, as defined by AFI 10-701 (Operations Security). 711 HPW Critical Information and Indicators are protected under the 711 HPW Operations Security Program and the 711 HPW Critical Information and Indicators List (CIIL). Contractor employees granted access to critical information and indicators will be provided initial OPSEC training by the 711 HPW OPSEC Coordinator upon in-processing and prior to being granted access to CIIL items related to the contract/Task Order. The contractor will also participate in 711 HPW’s annual OPSEC training and education programs, which includes periodic updates and refresher training on CIIL items applicable to the contract/Task Order. The 711 HPW OPSEC coordinator will evaluate the OPSEC posture of AF contract activities and operations.6. Attachment 9, Supplemental Instructions for Assistance Instrument Proposals, has been replaced in its entirety, and as a result removes Attachment 2, Certification for Assistance Instruments."
96,Public Diplomacy Grants in Kuwait,KUWAIT-PAS-2020-01,"Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndividuals",U.S. Mission to Kuwait,"U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 U.S. Embassy Kuwait
Notice of Funding Opportunity: Statement of Interest

Funding Opportunity Title: Supporting Civic Engagement, Marginalized Communities, and Education Through Exchanges and Training
Funding Opportunity Number:  KUWAIT-PAS-2020-01
Deadline for Applications: July 31, 2020               
CFDA Number: 19.040                          
Total Amount Available: $85,000              


A. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
 The U.S. Embassy in Kuwait announces an open competition for organizations or individuals to submit a statement of interest (SOI) to carry out a program (or programs) to the Public Affairs section at the U.S. Embassy Kuwait. Please carefully follow all instructions below.

The submission of the SOI is the first step in a two-step process. Applicants must first submit a concise (1-2 pages) statement of interest designed to clearly communicate the program idea and its objectives. This is not a full proposal. The purpose of the SOI process is to allow applicants to submit program ideas for evaluation prior to requiring the development of a full proposal application. Upon a merit review of eligible SOIs, selected applicants will be invited to expand on their program idea(s) by submitting a full proposal application. Full proposals will go through a second merit review before final funding decision are made.

Program Objectives: 

Grant proposals must be less than $25,000 each and seek to achieve one or more of the following goals:
 
1. Prepare students in Kuwait to attend U.S. universities, whether through English or college readiness training, college advising, or other means;
2. Strengthen the ability of marginalized communities, youth, and women to participate fully in the political process and the economy;
3. Improve intellectual property rights awareness and enforcement;
4. Promote people-to-people ties between the United States and Kuwait through educational, cultural, or civic activities that engage youth and young professionals in Kuwait;
5. Foster innovative approaches to solving social, economic, or political issues.
6. Promote community resiliency during and after the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
Interested applicants should submit a short summary of their proposal along with an estimated budget to PASKuwaitM@state.gov on or before July 31. 

Participants and Audiences:

Target audiences include youth and young professionals, educators, women, stateless residents, and other underserved populations in Kuwait.

B. FEDERAL AWARD INFORMATION
 
 
Length of performance period: 1 to 12 months 
Number of awards anticipated: approximately 10 awards (dependent on amounts)
Award amounts: awards may range from a minimum of $1,000 to a maximum of $25,000
Type of Funding:  FY20 Fulbright Hays or Smith Mundt Public Diplomacy Funds 
Anticipated program start date: October 2020 – September 2021

This notice is subject to availability of funding.

Funding Instrument Type: Fixed Amount Award

Program Performance Period: Proposed programs should be completed in 10 months or less.
 

 C. ELIGIBILITY INFORMATION

1.    Eligible Applicants

The following organizations are eligible to apply: 

·      Not-for-profit organizations, including think tanks and civil society/non-governmental organizations
·      Educational institutions, provided they are not-for-profit
·      Individuals

Foreign Public Entities (FPE), for example: Public International Organizations and Governmental institutions


2.    Cost Sharing or Matching

Cost share is encouraged, but not required. 

3.    Other Eligibility Requirements

In order to be eligible to receive an award, all organizations must have a unique entity identifier (Data Universal Numbering System/DUNS number from Dun & Bradstreet), as well as a valid registration on www.SAM.gov. Please see Section E.4 for more information. Individuals are not required to have a unique entity identifier or be registered in SAM.gov.


D. APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION INFORMATION

1.    Content and Form of Application Submission 

Please follow all instructions below carefully. SOIs that do not meet the requirements of this announcement or fail to comply with the stated requirements will be ineligible.

Content of SOI must include:

·      A brief project description summarizing goals, objectives, outcomes, performance indicators, beneficiaries, and proposed timeline. 
·      A clear statement of the applicant’s organizational capacity to carry out the proposed activity and manage U.S. Government funds.
·      Documents in English
·      The anticipated total budget amount in U.S. dollars


2.    Submission Dates and Times

SOIs are due no later than July 31, 2020.

3.    Funding Restrictions
 
Award funds must be used to benefit target audiences within Kuwait.

4.    Other Submission Requirements

All application materials must be submitted by email to PASKuwaitM@state.gov.


E. APPLICATION REVIEW INFORMATION

1.    Criteria

Each SOI will be evaluated and rated on the basis of the evaluation criteria outlined below. 

 
Quality of Program Idea – 50 points: The SOI is responsive to program framework. The idea is communicated well and is feasible. SOIs that promote creative approaches to address program objectives are highly encouraged. The proposed timeline is reasonable.  
Organizational Capacity and Record on Previous Grants – 35 points: The SOI should demonstrate the organization’s expertise and previous experience in administering programs. If a local partner is identified, the SOI should briefly describe the partner’s role and experience. 

Program Planning/Ability to Achieve Objectives – 15 points: The SOI should clearly articulate the proposed program activities and expected results towards achieving program objectives and goal(s).
2.    Review and Selection Process

A Grants Review Committee will evaluate all eligible SOIs. All eligible SOIs will be reviewed against the criteria listed above. SOIs are reviewed individually against the criteria and not against competing SOIs. For a balanced review, all panelists will review the first page of the SOI up to the page limit and no further. The panel may provide conditions and/or recommendations on SOIs to enhance the proposed program. Conditions must be addressed, and recommendations should be addressed in a full proposal application.


3.    Following the review, any successful SOI applicants will be contacted and instructed to submit full applications. A full application will include:
·      SF-424 (Application for Federal Assistance – organizations) or SF-424-I (Application for Federal Assistance --individuals) 
·      SF424A (Budget Information for Non-Construction programs) 
·      SF424B (Assurances for Non-Construction programs) for individual or organization exempted from registering in SAM.

4.    Unique Entity Identifier and System for Award Management (SAM.gov) 

Required Registrations:
Any applicant listed on the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS) in the System for Award Management (SAM) is not eligible to apply for an assistance award in accordance with the OMB guidelines at 2 CFR 180 that implement Executive Orders 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) and 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235), “Debarment and Suspension.” Additionally, no entity listed on the EPLS can participate in any activities under an award. All applicants are strongly encouraged to review the EPLS in SAM to ensure that no ineligible entity is included.

Organizations are not required to have a valid Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) number –formally referred to as DUNS (Data Universal Numbering System) number- nor active SAM.gov registration to apply at this stage of the solicitation. However, if a SOI is accepted for a full proposal application, the organization must obtain a UEI and have an active SAM.gov registration before submitting its full proposal application. Therefore, we recommend starting the process of obtaining a SAM.gov registration as soon as possible. The process can take several weeks. Please note there is no cost associated with UEI or SAM.gov registration.


F. FEDERAL AWARD ADMINISTRATION INFORMATION

1.     Administrative and National Policy Requirements

Terms and Conditions: Before submitting the SOI, applicants should review all the terms and conditions and required certifications which will apply if a full proposal application is requested and awarded, to ensure that they will be able to comply. These include:
2 CFR 200, 2 CFR 600, and the Department of State Standard Terms and Conditions which are available at: https://www.state.gov/about-us-office-of-the-procurement-executive/.

G. FEDERAL AWARDING AGENCY CONTACTS
If you have any questions about the SOI application process, please contact: PASKuwaitM@state.gov."
97,Collaborative Centers in Children's Environmental Health Research and Translation Centers (P2C Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-ES-20-001,"City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"To accelerate the movement of research findings to action, NIEHS invites grant applications from institutions/organizations that propose to build a Collaborative Center program in Children's Environmental Health Research and Translation (CEHRT Center). Centers are charged with developing effective strategies to translate key children's environmental health (CEH) research findings to relevant stakeholders in the community, academia and practice."
98,Administrative Supplement for Research on Dietary Supplements (Admin Supp-Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-227,"County governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) announces the availability of administrative supplements to support research in which the supplemental funding would investigate the role of dietary supplements and/or their ingredients in health maintenance and disease prevention. Parent awards need not be focused on dietary supplements; this FOA may provide support to include dietary supplements within the scope of relevant research projects. Research interests of ODS are not limited to specific health conditions, organ systems or population groups. ODS supports all types of research, including pre-clinical, clinical, behavioral, and epidemiological. Additionally, ODS supports research and training programs that build future research capacity for studying the role of dietary supplements in health and disease prevention. Primary consideration for support will be given to applications that stimulate dietary supplement research where it is lacking or lagging, clarify gaps, opportunities and balance between benefits and risks where data are in conflict, target special population groups where additional science on dietary supplements is needed, and focus on the use of dietary supplements in improving or maintaining health and reducing the risk of chronic disease. This FOA will not support new clinical trials."
99,Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division (NAWCAD) Office-Wide,N00421-20-S-0001,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",NAVAIR,"The Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division (NAWCAD) is interested in receiving white papers for Research and Development projects which offer potential for advancement and improvement of NAWCAD operations. See attachment, NAWCAD Office-Wide BAA N00421-20-S-0001, for further details."
100,"Mid-Career Enhancement Awards to Integrate Basic Behavioral, Biomedical, and/or Social Scientific Processes (K18 No Independent Clinical Trials)",PAR-20-211,"Special district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The OppNet Research Career Enhancement Award (K18) program invites applications from investigators who strive to expand their research trajectories through the acquisition of new knowledge and skills in the areas of basic psychological processes, sociological processes, and/or biomedical pathwaysexpertise that is beyond and enhances their current areas of expertise. The program will support research training and career development experiences and a small-scale research project that will provide experienced investigators with the scientific competencies required to conduct independent research projects that more thoroughly investigate interrelationships among behavioral, biological, endocrine, epigenetic, immune, inflammatory, neurological, psychological, and/or social processes. Eligible candidates are independent investigators at mid-career faculty rank or level."
101,"Mid-Career Enhancement Awards to Integrate Basic Behavioral, Biomedical, and/or Social Scientific Processes (K18 Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required)",PAR-20-226,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The OppNet Research Career Enhancement Award (K18) program invites applications from investigators who strive to expand their research trajectories through the acquisition of new knowledge and skills in the areas of basic psychological processes, sociological processes, and/or biomedical pathwaysexpertise that is beyond and enhances their current areas of expertise. The program will support research training and career development experiences and a small-scale research project that will provide experienced investigators with the scientific competencies required to conduct independent research projects that more thoroughly investigate interrelationships among behavioral, biological, endocrine, epigenetic, immune, inflammatory, neurological, psychological, and/or social processes. Eligible candidates are independent investigators at mid-career faculty rank or level."
102,Advancing HIV/AIDS Research through Computational Neuroscience FOA (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-DA-21-013,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement invites computational HIV/AIDS research as it relates to NIDAs mission through collaborative research between investigators with experimental expertise related to HIV/AIDS and those with computational proficiency, including scientists from statistics, physics, mathematics, engineering, and computer science. An R01 research project should build on well-established computational strategies (theory, models, and methods) to investigate HIV-related neurocognitive deficits and neuropathogenesis in the context of substance use or substance use disorder (SUD)."
103,Avenir Award Program for Genetics or Epigenetics of Substance Use Disorders (DP1 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-225,"Independent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"Avenir means future in French, and this award looks toward the future by supporting early stage investigators proposing highly innovative studies. The award will support those in an early stage of their career who may lack the preliminary data required for an R01 grant, but who propose high impact research and who show promise of being tomorrow's leaders in the field. NIDA has developed two Avenir Award Programs, one for HIV/AIDS research and the other for genetics or epigenetics studies."
104,"NIDA Avant-Garde Award Program for HIV/AIDS and Substance Use Disorder Research (DP1, Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-20-221,"Independent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The NIDA Avant-Garde Award Program for HIV/AIDS Research supports individual scientists of exceptional creativity who propose high-impact research that will open new areas of HIV/AIDS research relevant to drug abuse and/or lead to new avenues for prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS among drug abusers. The term avant-garde is used to describe highly innovative approaches that have the potential to be transformative. The proposed research should reflect approaches and ideas that are substantially different from those already being pursued by the investigator or others and should support the NIH HIV/AIDS Research Priorities https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-20-018.html. The NIDA Avant-Garde award supports innovative, basic research that may lead to improved preventive interventions or therapies; creative, new strategies to prevent disease transmission; novel approaches to improve disease outcomes; and creative approaches to eradicating HIV or improving the lives of those living with HIV."
105,Avenir Award Program for Research on Substance Use Disorders and HIV/AIDS (DP2 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-224,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Avenir means future in French, and  the Avenir Award Program for Research on Substance Abuse and HIV/AIDS looks toward the future by supporting early stage investigators (ESI) proposing highly innovative studies that address NIH HIV/AIDS Research Priorities https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-15-137.html. The Avenir Award Program for Research on Substance Abuse and HIV/AIDS will support creative individuals who wish to pursue innovative research at the nexus of substance abuse and HIV/AIDS. The nexus with drug abuse should be clearly described. The Avenir Award Program for Research on Substance Abuse and HIV/AIDS will support research approaches, both basic and clinical, which have the potential to benefit substance using populations with or at risk for HIV/AIDS by reducing HIV incidence, improving therapies for HIV, reducing the impact of comorbid conditions, and ultimately, eradicating HIV."
106,"DoD Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, Translational Research Partnership Award",W81XWH-20-DMDRP-TRPA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 DMDRP Translational Research Partnership Award mechanism supports collaborative research partnerships between investigators that will accelerate the movement of promising ideas in DMD into clinical applications. This award supports the development of translational research collaborations between two independent investigators to address a critical problem or question in DMD in a manner that would be less readily achievable through separate efforts. Partnerships where one partner in the collaboration is a research scientist and the other a clinician are strongly encouraged. It should be clear that both have had equal intellectual input into the design of the research project. Multi-institutional partnerships are encouraged but not required. At least one member of the partnership must have expertise either in DMD research or DMD patient care. A proposed project in which a clinical partner merely supplies tissue samples or access to patients will not meet the intent of this award mechanism.This mechanism is intended to support established projects that have moved beyond the realm of basic research and have the potential to result in a near-term impact in clinical research or the clinic. Research projects investigating therapies that will be efficacious across the life-span, particularly in adolescents and adults are strongly encouraged. Pilot, proof-of-principle clinical trials and correlative studies to better inform development of drugs, devices, and other interventions are allowed.The success of the project must be supported by the unique skills and contributions of each partner. The proposed study must include clearly stated plans for interactions between the Principal Investigators (PIs) and institutions involved. The plans must include communication, coordination of research progress and results, and data transfer. Additionally, multi-institutional applications must provide an intellectual property plan to resolve potential intellectual and material property issues and to remove institutional barriers that might interfere with achieving high levels of cooperation to ensure the successful completion of this award.All applications must include preliminary data relevant to DMD and the proposed project. The Translational Research Partnership Award requires two PIs. One PI will be identified as the Initiating PI and will be responsible for the majority of the administrative tasks associated with application submission. The other PI will be identified as a Partnering PI. Both PIs should contribute significantly to the development of the proposed research project, including the Project Narrative, Statement of Work (SOW), and other required components. If recommended for funding, each PI will be named to an individual award within the recipient organization. For individual submission requirements for the Initiating and Partnering PI, refer to Section II.D.2, Content and Form of the Application Submission."
107,"DoD Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy,  Idea Development Award",W81XWH-20-DMDRP-IDA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA," The DMDRP Idea Development Award supports the development of innovative, high-risk/high-reward research that could lead to critical discoveries or major advancements that will accelerate progress in improving outcomes for individuals with DMD. This award mechanism is designed to support innovative ideas with the potential to yield impactful data and new avenues of investigation. Preliminary data to support the feasibility of the research hypotheses and research approaches are required. "
108,Airman Readiness Medical Research (ARMR) Hybrid BAA,FA8650-20-S-6008,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force -- Research Lab,"The Warfighter Medical Optimization Division (RHM) intends to solicit White Papers under this announcement with the focus of conducting medical research in support of optimizing of the warfighter by enabling, enhancing, restoring, and sustaining the Airman to more effectively execute the Air Force mission. This medical research objective is dual natured: (1) ensure medical availability of Airmen by analyzing attributes (sensory, behavioral, physiologic) and operational environments (chemical, physical, psychological, biological, radiological stressors) to drive optimal performance of Airmen engaged in high-demand, high-impact mission tasks (2) investigate how the flight environment affects the process of life, the ability to maintain homeostasis, and the risk for injury or secondary insult, seeking to ameliorate these stressors to optimize Airman health and performance."
109,"Vision Research Program, Focused Translational Team Science Award",W81XWH-20-VRP-FTTSA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA," The FY20 VRP FTTSA is intended to support a highly collaborative and translational team initiative that will fundamentally advance the understanding and treatment of eye injury and/or visual dysfunction that result from a military-relevant traumatic event (e.g., blast, blunt, thermal, chemical, directed energy trauma).  "
110,"Vision Research Program, Investigator-Initiated Research Award",W81XWH-20-VRP-IIRA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA," 
The FY20 VRP IIRA is intended to support studies that will yield highly impactful discoveries or major advancements in the research and/or patient care of eye injury and/or visual dysfunction as related to military-relevant trauma. 
 
Applications involving multidisciplinary collaborations among academia, industry, the military Services, the VA, and other Federal Government agencies are highly encouraged.
 
To support research projects at different stages and the exploration/development of ideas of different maturity levels, two different funding levels are available under this Program Announcement. When submitting the pre-application, it is the responsibility of the applicant organization to select the funding level that is most appropriate for the research proposed. The funding level should be selected based on the stage and maturity level of the research project, rather than the amount of the budget. 
 "
111,"Vision Research Program, Translational Research Award",W81XWH-20-VRP-TRA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 VRP TRA is intended to support translational research that moves promising discoveries into clinical applications that will advance the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, and/or treatment of eye injury or visual dysfunction associated with military-relevant trauma."
112,HIV Infection of the Central Nervous System (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-149,"County governmentsCity or township governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The goals of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) are to stimulate further research on delineating the pathophysiology of HIV-1 associated CNS disease in the setting of chronic viral suppression and ART. In addition, FOA also encourages research studies to aid in the identification/ validation of biomarkers and pre-clinical targets with quantifiable readouts in domestic and international settings. Multidisciplinary research teams and collaborative alliances are encouraged but not required."
113,Eradication of HIV-1 from Central Nervous system Reservoirs (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-151,"State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites research grant applications studying mechanisms of HIV-1 persistence and eradication strategies specifically focused on the central nervous system (CNS) in the context of viral suppression. Basic and translational research in domestic and international settings are of interest. Multidisciplinary research teams and collaborative alliances are encouraged but not required
114,Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (Parent K23  Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-206,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the NIH Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (K23) is to support the career development of individuals with a clinical doctoral degree who have made a commitment to focus their research endeavors on patient-oriented research.
115,Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award (Parent K08  Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-202,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The primary purpose of the NIH Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Awards (K08) program is to prepare qualified individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the Nation. This program represents the continuation of a long-standing NIH program that provides support and ""protected time"" to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of biomedical and behavioral research, including translational research."
116,Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award (Parent K08 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-201,"Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The primary purpose of the NIH Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Awards (K08) program is to prepare qualified individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the Nation. This program represents the continuation of a long-standing NIH program that provides support and ""protected time"" to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of biomedical and behavioral research, including translational research."
117,Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award (Parent K08  Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-203,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The primary purpose of the NIH Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Awards (K08) program is to prepare qualified individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the Nation. This program represents the continuation of a long-standing NIH program that provides support and ""protected time"" to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of biomedical and behavioral research, including translational research."
118,Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (Parent K23  Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-205,"For profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the NIH Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (K23) is to support the career development of individuals with a clinical doctoral degree who have made a commitment to focus their research endeavors on patient-oriented research.
119,Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (Parent K23 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-204,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the NIH Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (K23) is to support the career development of individuals with a clinical doctoral degree who have made a commitment to focus their research endeavors on patient-oriented research.
120,Substance Use/Substance Use Disorder Dissertation Research Award (R36 - Clinical Trials Optional),PA-20-208,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The goal of this FOA is to support doctoral candidates from a variety of academic disciplines for up to two years for the completion of the doctoral dissertation research project. Research projects should align with NIDA funding priorities detailed here (https://www.drugabuse.gov/funding/funding-priorities) or within the NIDA Strategic Plan (https://www.drugabuse.gov/about-nida/2016-2020-nida-strategic-plan). This award will facilitate the entry of promising new investigators into the field of substance use/substance use disorder (SU(D) research, enhancing the pool of highly talented SU(D) researchers. Applications are particularly encouraged from those who can contribute to diversifying the research workforce as described in the Notice of NIH's Interest in Diversity (NOT-OD-20-031)."
121,NIH Small Research Grant Program (Parent R03 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-200,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Small Research Grant Program supports small research projects that can be carried out in a short period of time with limited resources. This program supports different types of projects including pilot and feasibility studies; secondary analysis of existing data; small, self-contained research projects; development of research methodology; and development of new research technology. This Funding Opportunity Announcement does not accept applications proposing clinical trial(s)."
122,Mentored Quantitative Research Development Award (Parent K25 Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-197,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Mentored Quantitative Research Career Development Award (K25) is to attract to NIH-relevant research those investigators whose quantitative science and engineering research has thus far not been focused primarily on questions of health and disease.  The K25 award will provide support and ""protected time"" for a period of supervised study and research for productive professionals with quantitative (e.g., mathematics, statistics, economics, computer science, imaging science, informatics, physics, chemistry) and engineering backgrounds to integrate their expertise with NIH-relevant research. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial, as part of their research and career development. Applicants not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion FOA."
123,Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (Parent K01 - Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-176,"County governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (K01) is to provide support and protected time (three to five years) for an intensive, supervised career development experience in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical sciences leading to research independence. Although all of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) use this support mechanism to support career development experiences that lead to research independence, some ICs use the K01 award for individuals who propose to train in a new field or for individuals who have had a hiatus in their research career because of illness or pressing family circumstances. Other ICs offer separate K01 FOAs intended to increase research workforce diversity."
124,NIH Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant Program (Parent R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-195,"Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Exploratory/Developmental Grant supports exploratory and developmental research projects by providing support for the early and conceptual stages of these projects. These studies may involve considerable risk but may lead to a breakthrough in a particular area, or to the development of novel techniques, agents, methodologies, models, or applications that could have a major impact on a field of biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research."
125,Mentored Quantitative Research Development Award (Parent K25 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-198,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Mentored Quantitative Research Career Development Award (K25) is to attract to NIH-relevant research those investigators whose quantitative science and engineering research has thus far not been focused primarily on questions of health and disease.  The K25 award will provide support and ""protected time"" for a period of supervised study and research for productive professionals with quantitative (e.g., mathematics, statistics, economics, computer science, imaging science, informatics, physics, chemistry) and engineering backgrounds to integrate their expertise with NIH-relevant research."
126,DoD Hearing Restoration Focused Research Award,W81XWH-20-HRRP-FRA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The FY20 HRRP FRA mechanism is intended to support promising research that will accelerate drug discovery and therapeutic development for hearing restoration or accelerate advances in the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of auditory dysfunction.  The proposed research must be relevant to active duty Service members, Veterans, military beneficiaries, and/or the American public. Applications involving multidisciplinary collaborations among academia, industry, the military Services, the VA, and other Federal Government agencies are highly encouraged."
127,Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (Parent K01 - Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-190,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (K01) is to provide support and protected time (three to five years) for an intensive, supervised career development experience in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical sciences leading to research independence. Although all of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) use this support mechanism to support career development experiences that lead to research independence, some ICs use the K01 award for individuals who propose to train in a new field or for individuals who have had a hiatus in their research career because of illness or pressing family circumstances. Other ICs offer separate K01 FOAs intended to increase research workforce diversity."
128,Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (Parent K01 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-191,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (K01) is to provide support and protected time (three to five years) for an intensive, supervised career development experience in the biomedical, behavioral, or clinical sciences leading to research independence. Although all of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) use this support mechanism to support career development experiences that lead to research independence, some ICs use the K01 award for individuals who propose to train in a new field or for individuals who have had a hiatus in their research career because of illness or pressing family circumstances. Other ICs offer separate K01 FOAs intended to increase research workforce diversity."
129,NIH Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant Program (Parent R21 Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-194,"Private institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Exploratory/Developmental Grant supports exploratory and developmental research projects by providing support for the early and conceptual stages of these projects. These studies may involve considerable risk but may lead to a breakthrough in a particular area, or to the development of novel techniques, agents, methodologies, models, or applications that could have a major impact on a field of biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. This Parent Funding Opportunity Announcement requires that at least 1 clinical trial be proposed.  The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of one or more of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) based on their scientific missions. Applicants should note that some ICs (see Related Notices) only accept applications proposing mechanistic studies that meet NIH's definition of a clinical trial through this funding opportunity announcement."
130,Mentored Quantitative Research Development Award (Parent K25 Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-199,"City or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Mentored Quantitative Research Career Development Award (K25) is to attract to NIH-relevant research those investigators whose quantitative science and engineering research has thus far not been focused primarily on questions of health and disease.  The K25 award will provide support and ""protected time"" for a period of supervised study and research for productive professionals with quantitative (e.g., mathematics, statistics, economics, computer science, imaging science, informatics, physics, chemistry) and engineering backgrounds to integrate their expertise with NIH-relevant research. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary clinical trial. Applicants to this FOA are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. Applicants proposing a clinical trial or an ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion FOA ()."
131,NIH Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant Program (Parent R21 Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-196,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndividualsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Exploratory/Developmental Grant supports exploratory and developmental research projects by providing support for the early and conceptual stages of these projects. These studies may involve considerable risk but may lead to a breakthrough in a particular area, or to the development of novel techniques, agents, methodologies, models, or applications that could have a major impact on a field of biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. This Parent Funding Opportunity Announcement is for basic science experimental studies involving humans, referred to in NOT-OD-18-212 as prospective basic science studies involving human participants. These studies fall within the NIH definition of a clinical trial and also meet the definition of basic research. Types of studies that should submit under this FOA include studies that prospectively assign human participants to conditions (i.e., experimentally manipulate independent variables) and that assess biomedical or behavioral outcomes in humans for the purpose of understanding the fundamental aspects of phenomena without specific application towards processes or products in mind. Studies conducted with specific applications toward processes or products in mind should submit under the appropriate Clinical Trials Required or Clinical Trial Optional FOA. The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of one or more of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) based on their scientific missions."
132,Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (Parent K24 Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-193,"County governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (K24) is to provide support to mid-career health-professional doctorates for protected time to devote to patient-oriented research (POR) and to act as research mentors primarily for clinical residents, clinical fellows and/or junior clinical faculty."
133,Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (Parent K24 Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-186,"County governmentsState governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (K24) is to provide support to mid-career health-professional doctorates for protected time to devote to patient-oriented research (POR) and to act as research mentors primarily for clinical residents, clinical fellows and/or junior clinical faculty."
134,Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (Parent K24 - Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-192,"Private institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (K24) is to provide support to mid-career health-professional doctorates for protected time to devote to patient-oriented research (POR) and to act as research mentors primarily for clinical residents, clinical fellows and/or junior clinical faculty."
135,NIH Pathway to Independence Award (Parent K99/R00  Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-187,"Small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Pathway to Independence Award (K99/R00) program is to increase and maintain a strong cohort of new and talented, NIH-supported, independent investigators. This program is designed to facilitate a timely transition of outstanding postdoctoral researchers with a research and/or clinical doctorate degree from mentored, postdoctoral research positions to independent, tenure-track or equivalent faculty positions. The program will provide independent NIH research support during this transition in order to help awardees to launch competitive, independent research careers."
136,NIH Research Project Grant (Parent R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-185,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsState governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Project Grant supports a discrete, specified, circumscribed project in areas representing the specific interests and competencies of the investigator(s). The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of one or more of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) based on their scientific missions.  This Funding Opportunity Announcement does not accept applications proposing clinical trial(s)."
137,Research Project Grant (Parent R01 Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-184,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Project Grant supports a discrete, specified, circumscribed project in areas representing the specific interests and competencies of the investigator(s).  This Parent Funding Opportunity Announcement is for basic science experimental studies involving humans, referred to in NOT-OD-18-212 as prospective basic science studies involving human participants.  These studies fall within the NIH definition of a clinical trial and also meet the definition of basic research.  Types of studies that should submit under this FOA include studies that prospectively assign human participants to conditions (i.e., experimentally manipulate independent variables) and that assess biomedical or behavioral outcomes in humans for the purpose of understanding the fundamental aspects of phenomena without specific application towards processes or products in mind. Studies conducted with specific applications toward processes or products in mind should submit under the appropriate Clinical Trials Required or Clinical Trial Optional FOA. The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of one or more of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) based on their scientific missions."
138,NIH Pathway to Independence Award (Parent K99/R00 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-189,"For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Pathway to Independence Award (K99/R00) program is to increase and maintain a strong cohort of new and talented, NIH-supported, independent investigators. This program is designed to facilitate a timely transition of outstanding postdoctoral researchers with a research and/or clinical doctorate degree from mentored, postdoctoral research positions to independent, tenure-track or equivalent faculty positions. The program will provide independent NIH research support during this transition in order to help awardees to launch competitive, independent research careers."
139,NIH Pathway to Independence Award (Parent K99/R00  Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-188,"City or township governmentsState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Pathway to Independence Award (K99/R00) program is to increase and maintain a strong cohort of new and talented, NIH-supported, independent investigators. This program is designed to facilitate a timely transition of outstanding postdoctoral researchers with a research and/or clinical doctorate degree from mentored, postdoctoral research positions to independent, tenure-track or equivalent faculty positions. The program will provide independent NIH research support during this transition in order to help awardees to launch competitive, independent research careers."
140,Research Project Grant (Parent R01 Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-183,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Project Grant supports a discrete, specified, circumscribed project in areas representing the specific interests and competencies of the investigator(s). This Parent Funding Opportunity Announcement requires that at least 1 clinical trial be proposed. The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of one or more of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) based on their scientific missions.  Applicants should note that some ICs (see Related Notices) only accept applications proposing mechanistic studies that meet NIH's definition of a clinical trial through this funding opportunity announcement."
141,Inclusion across the Nation of Communities of Learners of Underrepresented Discoverers in Engineering and Science,20-569,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"In 2016, the National Science Foundation (NSF) unveiled a set of “Big Ideas,” 10 bold, long-term research and process ideas that identify areas for future investment at the frontiers of science and engineering (see https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/big_ideas/index.jsp). The Big Ideas represent unique opportunities to position our Nation at the cutting edge of global science and engineering leadership by bringing together diverse disciplinary perspectives to support convergence research. As such, when responding to this solicitation, even though proposals must be submitted to the Education and Human Resources (EHR) Directorate/Division of Human Resource Development (HRD), once received, the proposals will be managed by a cross-disciplinary team of NSF Program Directors.


The NSF INCLUDES Big Idea is a comprehensive national initiative to enhance U.S. leadership in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) discoveries and innovations focused on NSF's commitment to diversity, inclusion, and broadening participation in these fields. The vision of NSF INCLUDES is to catalyze the STEM enterprise to work collaboratively for inclusive change, resulting in a STEM workforce that reflects the population of the Nation. More specifically, NSF INCLUDES seeks to improve collaborative efforts aimed at enhancing the preparation, increasing the participation, and ensuring the contributions of individuals from groups that have been historically underrepresented and underserved in the STEM enterprise such as African Americans, Alaska Natives, Hispanics, Native Americans, Native Hawaiians, Native Pacific Islanders, persons with disabilities, persons from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, and women and girls. Significant advancement in the inclusion of underrepresented groups in STEM will result in a new generation of STEM talent and leadership to secure our nation’s future and long-term economic competitiveness.


The NSF INCLUDES National Network is composed of:


Alliances,
Design and Development Launch Pilots,
Coordination Hub,
Other NSF funded projects,
Federal Coordination in STEM (FC-STEM) agencies,
Scholars engaged in broadening participation research, and
Organizations that support the development of talent from all sectors of society to build an inclusive STEM workforce.


A hallmark of NSF INCLUDES is the focus on the five design elements of collaborative infrastructure to achieve systemic change. Collaborative infrastructure refers to the process by which partnering organizations come together to map out mutually reinforcing activities through: (1) shared vision, (2) partnerships, (3) goals and metrics, (4) leadership and communication, and (5) expansion, sustainability and scale. Through these five design elements of collaborative infrastructure, the successful implementation of NSF INCLUDES will result in substantial advances toward a diverse, innovative, and well-prepared STEM workforce to support our Nation’s economy and continued U.S. leadership in the global STEM enterprise. It is anticipated that NSF’s investment will contribute to new and improved STEM career pathways, policies, opportunities to learn, and practices for equity and inclusion. The initiative is supported by the NSF INCLUDES Coordination Hub (www.includesnetwork.org) that provides a framework for communication and networking, network assistance and reinforcement, and visibility and expansion for the NSF INCLUDES National Network as a whole.


Through this solicitation, NSF INCLUDES will support the establishment and growth of new Alliances that employ a collaborative infrastructure approach to address a critical broadening participation challenge in STEM at scale."
142,Identifying Innovative Mechanisms or Interventions that Target Multimorbidity and Its Consequences (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-180,"City or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications that seek to support the identification of shared mechanisms and development of innovative interventions to address multimorbidity (or multiple chronic conditions (MCCs)) and its consequences. Intervention research supported by this initiative should be designed to study: (1) mechanisms or pathways that prevent MCCs, including the identification of early biomarkers, behavioral pathways, and individual and contextual risk factors and interactions that contribute to the development of common MCCs; (2) targeted therapies and management, including self-management, of MCCs to delay progression and prevent onset of new diseases; and (3) innovative health care partnership models for managing or treating MCCs. Studies may include shared mechanisms, and assessments of interactions between risk factors and interventions that address MCCs at different periods of the lifespan in diverse populations. Use of innovative technologies to assess and intervene on risk factors and pathways are encouraged.  Studies may also include those that make use of existing data and/or data linkages to explore new research questions that may be helpful in understanding the impact of mechanisms in isolation or in combination. Of particular interest are interventions that target prevention and treatment of multiple chronic health conditions, including study designs that address therapeutic targets for preventing co-occurring multiple chronic conditions. Prospective applicants whose research interests relate to developing improved measures and methods for understanding multimorbidity, including but not limited to measures/tools to support basic mechanistic discovery of shared MCC pathways and identification and initial evaluation of MCC shared signatures, should see PAR-XX-XXX."
143,Advancing Research to Develop Improved Measures and Methods for Understanding Multimorbidity (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-179,"City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications that seek to improve the availability, quality, and utility of data and measures that capture multimorbidity or multiple chronic conditions (MCCs) and the methods for analyzing multimorbidity data. Research supported by this initiative should be designed to discover, develop, and/or evaluate MCC measures/tools that reflect the longitudinality and life course diversity of multimorbidity. This includes but is not limited to measures/tools to support basic mechanistic discovery of shared MCC pathways using animal models of MCCs, and identification and initial biological, analytical, and clinical evaluation of MCC shared signatures. Also sought are patient-focused studies that capture patient reports and related constructs such as functional limitations and quality of life; analytic approaches best suited for use with multimorbidity data and matched to target populations; and approaches that fully harness the wealth of multimorbidity data available in EHR systems. Studies may make use of existing data and data linkages to explore new research questions related to co-occurring MCCs. Prospective applicants whose research interests relate to studies that identify shared mechanisms or development of innovative interventions to address MCCs should see PAR-XX-XXX."
144,Antarctic Research,20-568,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Antarctic Sciences Section (ANT) of the Office of Polar Programs (OPP) supports cutting-edge researchto:


Expand fundamental knowledge of Antarctic systems, biota, and processes
Improve understanding of interactions among the Antarctic region and global systems
Utilize the unique characteristics of the Antarctic region as a science observing platform


The U.S. Antarctic Program (USAP) supports scientific research in Antarctica and the Southern Ocean with logistics provided by OPP’s Antarctic Infrastructure and Logistics Section (AIL). Antarctic fieldwork is supported only for research that must be performed, or is best performed, in Antarctica. ANT encourages research, using existing samples, data, and models, that does not require fieldwork. ANT also encourages research that crosses and combines, disciplinary perspectives and approaches."
145,Independent Scientist Award (Parent K02 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-20-173,"For profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Independent Scientist Award (K02) is to foster the development of outstanding scientists and enable them to expand their potential to make significant contributions to their field of research. The K02 award provides three to five years of salary support and ""protected time"" for newly independent scientists who can demonstrate the need for a period of intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers. Each independent scientist career award program must be tailored to meet the individual needs of the candidate. This Parent Funding Opportunity Announcement is for basic science experimental studies involving humans, referred to in NOT-OD-18-212 as prospective basic science studies involving human participants.  These studies fall within the NIH definition of a clinical trial and also meet the definition of basic research.  Types of studies that should be submitted under this FOA include studies that prospectively assign human participants to conditions (i.e., experimentally manipulate independent variables) and that assess biomedical or behavioral outcomes in humans for the purpose of understanding the fundamental aspects of phenomena without specific application towards processes or products in mind. Applicants not planning an independent clinical trial or basic experimental study with humans, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial or basic experimental study with humans led by another investigator, must apply to the 'Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed' companion FOA.  The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of one or more of the participating NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs)  based on their scientific missions."
146,Independent Scientist Award (Parent K02 - Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-20-174,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businessesIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Independent Scientist Award (K02) is to foster the development of outstanding scientists and enable them to expand their potential to make significant contributions to their field of research. The K02 award provides three to five years of salary support and ""protected time"" for newly independent scientists who can demonstrate the need for a period of intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers. Each independent scientist career award program must be tailored to meet the individual needs of the candidate. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial. Applicants to this FOA are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator. Applicants proposing a clinical trial or an ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion FOA"
147,Independent Scientist Award (Parent K02 - Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-171,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Independent Scientist Award (K02) is to foster the development of outstanding scientists and enable them to expand their potential to make significant contributions to their field of research. The K02 award provides three to five years of salary support and ""protected time"" for newly independent scientists who can demonstrate the need for a period of intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers. Each independent scientist career award program must be tailored to meet the individual needs of the candidate. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial, as part of their research and career development. Applicants not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion FOA"
148,Long-Term Effects of Disasters on Health Care Systems Serving Health Disparity Populations (R01- Clinical Trial Optional),PA-20-172,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support investigative and collaborative research focused on understanding the long-term effects of natural and/or human-made disasters on health care systems serving health disparity populations in communities in the U.S., including the U.S. territories. NIH-designated health disparity populations include racial and ethnic minorities (Blacks/African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, American Indians/Alaska Natives, Asians, Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders), sexual and gender minorities, socioeconomically disadvantaged populations, and underserved rural populations."
149,Strengthening Institutional Capacity to Conduct Global Cancer Research in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (D43 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-CA-20-031,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to establish an institutional program for mentored training in global cancer research. This program will support research training led by US-based cancer research-intensive institutions working in collaboration with institutions in low and middle-income countries (LMICs). These training programs will be built upon the US institutions pre-existing training infrastructure and research collaborations with LMICs and will leverage these resources to expand the global cancer research workforce both in the US and in LMICs. The overarching goal of this grant program is to build capacity to conduct innovative and collaborative global research projects that will contribute to the advancement of basic, clinical, translational, and population-based cancer research."
150,Research on Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-20-165,"Independent school districtsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages investigator(s)-initiated applications that propose to examine the etiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology and manifestations of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in diverse groups and across the lifespan. Applications that address gaps in the understanding of the environmental and biological risk factors, the determinants of heterogeneity among individuals with ME/CFS, and the common mechanisms influencing the multiple affected body systems in ME/CFS are encouraged. The NIH is particularly interested in funding interdisciplinary research that will enhance our knowledge of disease processes and provide evidence-based solutions to improve the diagnosis, treatment, and quality of life of all persons with ME/CFS. This interdisciplinary research may include the building of scientific teams to study and develop biomarkers and/or characterize the pathophysiological response of organ systems in individuals with ME/CFS. Applicants are encouraged to propose novel and innovative research that will break new ground or extend previous discoveries toward new directions."
151,Research on Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) (R21 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-20-168,"County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages investigator(s)-initiated applications that propose to examine the etiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology and manifestations of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in diverse groups and across the lifespan. Applications that address gaps in the understanding of the environmental and biological risk factors, the determinants of heterogeneity among individuals with ME/CFS, and the common mechanisms influencing the multiple affected body systems in ME/CFS are encouraged. The NIH is particularly interested in funding interdisciplinary research that will enhance our knowledge of disease processes and provide evidence-based solutions to improve the diagnosis, treatment, and quality of life of all persons with ME/CFS. This interdisciplinary research may include the building of scientific teams to study and develop biomarkers and/or characterize the pathophysiological response of organ systems in individuals with ME/CFS. The R21 Grant mechanism is intended to support innovative, high impact research projects.  Such projects would either 1) generate pilot data to assess the feasibility of a novel avenue of investigation; 2) involve high risk experiments that could lead to a breakthrough in ME/CFS; 3) demonstrate the feasibility of new technologies that could have a major impact on ME/CFS research.  Proposals submitted under this mechanism should be limited to those with the potential for truly ground-breaking impact."
152,Mechanisms and Consequences of Sleep Disparities in the U.S. (R01 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-164,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to promote research to understand the underlying mechanisms of sleep deficiencies among health disparity populations and how sleep deficiencies may lead to disparities in health outcomes.
153,Competing Revisions to Existing NIH Grants and Cooperative Agreements (Clinical Trial Optional),PA-20-163,"City or township governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) hereby notifies NIH award recipients that funds may be available for revision applications to support the expansion of existing projects and/or programs within the awarding IC identified in the competitive revision NOSI. Applications for Revisions will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by (an) appropriate Scientific Review Group(s), in accordance with NIH peer review policy and procedures, using the stated review criteria. Only applications submitted in response to a NOSI published by an NIH Institute or Center will be allowed to apply to this FOA."
154,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Short-Term Institutional Research Training Grant (Parent T35),PA-20-162,"Special district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsState governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) will award Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Short-Term Institutional Research Training Grants (T35) to eligible, domestic institutions to develop and/or enhance research training opportunities for predoctoral students interested in careers in biomedical, behavioral, or clinical research. Many NIH Institutes and Centers (ICs) use this NRSA program exclusively to support intensive, short-term research training experiences for health professional students (medical students, veterinary students, and/or students in other health-professional programs) during the summer. This program is also intended to encourage training of graduate students in the physical or quantitative sciences to pursue research careers by short-term exposure to, and involvement in, the health-related sciences. The training should be of sufficient depth to enable the trainees, upon completion of the program, to have a thorough exposure to the principles underlying the conduct of biomedical research.    This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) does not allow appointed Trainees to lead an independent clinical trial, but does allow them to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor."
155,Academic-Industrial Partnerships (AIP) to Translate and Validate In Vivo Imaging Systems (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-155,"State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to stimulate translation of scientific discoveries and engineering developments in imaging, data science and/or spectroscopic technologies into methods or tools that address contemporary problems in understanding the fundamental biology, potential risk of development, diagnosis, treatment, and/or disease status for cancer or other disease."
156,Extracellular RNA carrier subclasses in processes relevant to Substance Use Disorders or HIV infection (R01- Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-147,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is to encourage research investigating the roles of extracellular RNA (exRNA) carrier subclasses in biological processes relevant to substance use disorders (SUDs) and/or HIV infection, latency, or pathogenesis in the CNS. Applicants may propose to investigate biological mechanisms involving exRNA carrier subclasses, or propose to develop improved technologies to investigate extracellular vesicles or other exRNA carriers."
157,Extracellular RNA carrier subclasses in processes relevant to Substance Use Disorders or HIV infection (R21- Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-148,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsState governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is to encourage research investigating the roles of extracellular RNA (exRNA) carrier subclasses in biological processes relevant to substance use disorders (SUDs) and/or HIV infection, latency, or pathogenesis in the CNS. Applicants may propose to investigate biological mechanisms involving exRNA carrier subclasses, or propose to develop improved technologies to investigate extracellular vesicles or other exRNA carriers."
158,NIDA Small Research Grant Program (R03 Clinical Trial Required),PA-20-146,"Special district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The NIDA Small Research Grant Program supports small research projects that can be carried out in a short period of time with limited resources. This program supports different types of projects including pilot, feasibility, or small clinical trials with medications, behavioral interventions, immunotherapies, therapeutic devices, therapeutic digital applications, health services, prevention interventions, biomarkers, and development of research methodology. This Funding Opportunity Announcement requires that a clinical trial be proposed. The proposed project must be related to the programmatic interests of NIDA."
159,Exploiting in vivo or in situ imaging approaches to understand HIV-relevant processes in the context of substance use disorders  (R61/R33 Clinical Trials Optional),RFA-DA-21-005,"State governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this initiative is to support projects that further develop or exploit advances using in situ or in vivo imaging or related technologies to investigate HIV/SIV infection, latent reservoirs, the pathogenic consequences of HIV/SIV infection, or the effects of HIV/SIV or substance use disorder (SUD) therapies. Applicants may propose primate or human studies to investigate blood, lymphoid, or brain tissues."
160,Annual Program Statement,C-NOFO-20-100,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",U.S. Mission to India,"PAS Chennai seeks proposal for multiple project objectives, each proposal should focus primarily on one of the following priority project areas.

·        Inclusive Economic Growth: Activities that build India’s entrepreneurship ecosystem through women’s economic empowerment. Improve the connections between U.S. and Indian businesses, and/or expand economic opportunities for women, youth, and undeserved populations.

·        Countering Disinformation: Projects that reinforce journalistic standards to counter disinformation; support freedom of information; encourage transparency; promote critical thinking; and instill media ethics through educational methods and materials. Journalists and citizens will be better equipped to evaluate and hold to account all sources of information.

·        Disaster Management: Activities related to building capacity in community volunteers, leaders, and first responders who can take effective action before, during, and after an emergency. Increase understanding of all-hazards mitigation and management and build civic participation, good governance, and resilient communities.
 
·        Active Citizenship: Projects that support human rights, racial/ethnic equality, women’s empowerment, diversity, and social inclusion in civil society, with special focus on youth and grassroots communities. 

(Please refer the full announcement available in related documents tab)"
161,Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Institutional Research Training Grant (Parent T32),PA-20-142,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) will award Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award (NRSA) Institutional Research Training Grants (T32) to eligible, domestic institutions to enhance predoctoral and postdoctoral research training, including short-term research training, and help ensure that a diverse and highly trained workforce is available to meet the needs of the Nations biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research agenda.  Research training programs are expected to incorporate didactic, research, and career development elements to prepare trainees for careers that will have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the Nation. Programs proposing only short-term predoctoral research training should not apply to this announcement, but rather to the Kirschstein-NRSA Short-Term Institutional Research Training Grant Program (T35) exclusively reserved for predoctoral, short-term research training (see PA-18-404). This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) does not allow appointed trainees to lead an independent clinical trial, but does allow them to obtain research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor."
162,Analysis,PD-20-1281,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Analysis Program supports research in analysis. Areas of current activity include complex, harmonic, and real analysis; dynamical systems and ergodic theory; functional analysis; mathematical physics; operator theory and operator algebras; partial differential equations and calculus of variations.


Conferences


Proposals to the Analysis Program for conferences or workshops must be submitted through the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below). Principal Investigators should carefully read the solicitation to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, and similar activities.


To facilitate timely notification of the availability of support, the following requirements are in effect: for support of an event that has a starting date between March 1 and September 30 during a given year, the proposal must be submitted between September 16 and September 30 in the previous year; for support of an event that has a starting date between October 1 in a given year and the last day of February in the following year, the proposal must be submitted between May 16 and May 30 of that year.


Conference proposals to the Analysis Program whose submission dates do not conform with the requirements described above will be returned without review.


Prospective PIs of proposals for conferences, workshops, etc., whose budget requests exceed $50,000 are reminded that such proposals will, in general, require external review and hence are subject to significantly longer processing times."
163,"Research to Reduce Morbidity and Improve Care for Pediatric, and Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Cancer Survivors (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)",RFA-CA-20-028,"County governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) invites applications describing research focused on improving care and health-related quality of life for childhood, and adolescent and young adult (AYA) cancer survivors. Specifically, this FOA solicits mechanistic, observational, and intervention applications that focus on six key domains: (1) disparities in survivor outcomes; (2) barriers to follow-up care (e.g. access, adherence); (3) impact of familial, socioeconomic, and other environmental factors on survivor outcomes; (4) indicators for long-term follow-up needs related to risk for late effects, recurrence, and subsequent cancers; (5) risk factors and predictors of late/long-term effects of cancer treatment; and (6) development of targeted interventions to reduce the burden of cancer for pediatric/AYA survivors."
164,"Research to Reduce Morbidity and Improve Care for Pediatric, and Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Cancer Survivors (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",RFA-CA-20-027,"County governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) invites applications describing research focused on improving care and health-related quality of life for childhood, and adolescent and young adult (AYA) cancer survivors. Specifically, this FOA solicits mechanistic, observational, and intervention applications that focus on six key domains: (1) disparities in survivor outcomes; (2) barriers to follow-up care (e.g. access, adherence); (3) impact of familial, socioeconomic, and other environmental factors on survivor outcomes; (4) indicators for long-term follow-up needs related to risk for late effects, recurrence, and subsequent cancers; (5) risk factors and predictors of late/long-term effects of cancer treatment; and (6) development of targeted interventions to reduce the burden of cancer for pediatric/AYA survivors."
165,Broad Mission Announcement for USAID/Ethiopia,72066320BMA00001,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Ethiopia USAID-Addis Ababa ,"This Broad Mission Announcement (BMA) seeks opportunities for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to co-create, co-design, co-invest, and collaborate in basic and applied research and development that supports the Government of Ethiopia’s (GOE) reform efforts, to meet joint USAID/GOE Development Objectives, which are outlined in USAID/Ethiopia’s Country Development Cooperation Strategy. In accordance with additional Critical Problem Addenda that will be issued under the BMA, organizations and companies are invited to participate with USAID in activities, innovations, and technologies that further these Development Objectives.This BMA serves to inform the public of the opportunity for possible funding for innovations that support the GOE quest for improved development outcomes. Actual opportunities for funding and partnering will be issued as a Critical Problem Addenda to this BMA. No responses to the BMA will be considered until a Critical Problem Addendum has been issued. The terms of the BMA apply to each Critical Problem Addendum. Individual Critical Problem Addenda may have specific requirements for evaluation criteria and administrative information, such as the requirements for Expressions of Interest, Concept Papers, and response deadlines.This BMA is a competitive approach to consider applications that harness scientific research, specific expertise or experience, innovation, and partnerships to discover, test and scale breakthrough innovations to solve development challenges in the areas of development program management, disaster risk management, household and community resilience, private sector growth, essential service delivery (strengthening education and health systems as well as empowering communities), youth development and engagement, and citizen responsive governance.   "
166,Research Projects to Enhance Applicability of Mammalian Models for Translational Research (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-131,"Independent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsCounty governmentsSmall businessesCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite applications for projects to expand, improve, or transform the utility of mammalian cancer and tumor models for translational research. With this FOA, the NCI intends to encourage submission of projects devoted to demonstrating that mammalian models or their derivatives used for translational research are robust representations of human biology, are appropriate to test questions of clinical importance, and provide reliable information for patients' benefit. These practical goals contrast with the goals of many mechanistic, NCI-supported R01 projects that employ mammals, or develop and use mammalian cancer models, transplantation tumor models, or models derived from mammalian or human tissues or cells for hypothesis-testing, non-clinical research. Among many other possible endeavors, applicants in response to this FOA could propose demonstrations of how to overcome translational deficiencies of mammalian oncology models, define new uses of mammalian models or their genetics for unexplored translational challenges, advance standard practices for use of translational models, test approaches to validate and credential models, or challenge current practices for how models are used translationally"
167,"Development of Wearable Smart Devices for Continuous Monitoring of Circulating Nutrients, Metabolites and Hormones (R21/R33 Clinical Trial Required)",PAR-20-134,"For profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement is to develop tools and devices that can continuously monitor a broader range of nutrients, metabolites and/or metabolic signals for advancing precision nutrition, microbiome, and circadian metabolism research."
168,Emergency Competitive Revision to Existing NIH Awards (Emergency Supplement - Clinical Trial Optional),PA-20-135,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) hereby notify the applicant community that funds may be available for applications based on a presidentially declared disaster under the Stafford Act, a public health emergency declared by the Secretary, HHS, or other local, regional or national disaster. Applications in response to Emergency Guide Notices will be routed directly to the NIH awarding component signed on to the Emergency Guide Notice.   Only applications submitted in response to an Emergency Guide Notice published by an Institute or Center (IC) will be allowed to apply to this Funding Opportunity Announcement."
169,BRAIN Initiative: Standards to Define Experiments Related to the BRAIN Initiative (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-MH-20-128,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) solicits applications to develop standards that describe experimental protocols that are being conducted as part of the BRAIN Initiative. It is expected that applications will solicit community input at all stages of the process. It is recommended that the first step of standard development will involve sharing data between different key groups in the experimental community in order to ensure that the developing standard will cover the way that all of those groups are collecting data. The developed standard is expected to be made widely available.
170,Toward Translation of Nanotechnology Cancer Interventions (TTNCI) (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-116,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), entitled ""Toward Translation of Nanotechnology Cancer Interventions"" (TTNCI), encourages applications for advanced pre-clinical research, supporting translation of nanotechnology-based cancer diagnostics and therapeutics. TTNCI awards are designed to mature experimental nanomedicines relying on ""next-generation"" nanoparticles and nano-devices which demonstrate strong potential to improve treatment effectiveness and/or tackle cancers that currently have a very limited arsenal of approved therapies or diagnostic strategies. TTNCI awards are expected to enable further development of proposed nanotechnology-based interventions to the stage in which they could continue on a developmental path towards the NCI Experimental Therapeutics (NExT) and other NCI translational programs."
171,Cyberinfrastructure for Emerging Science and Engineering Research,PD-20-7684,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Cyberinfrastructure for Emerging Science and Engineering Research (CESER) program aims to catalyze new science and engineering discovery pathways through early-stage collaborative activities between disciplinary scientists and engineers as well as developers/implementers of innovative cyberinfrastructure (CI) capabilities, services, and approaches. 


Beginning in FY 2017, the CESER program replaced the Strategic Technologies for Cyberinfrastructure (STCI) program. CESER has retained STCI's focus on supporting innovation across the CI ecosystem with increased emphasis on addressing and enabling emerging areas of potentially transformative research, including NSF priority areas, national strategic directions, and international collaborative research.


CESER accepts proposals pursuant to this Program Description year-round. From time to time, NSF may also issue Dear Colleague Letters pursuant to CESER to signal special thematic interests and opportunities. CESER employs existing NSF funding mechanisms to accomplish the program's goals.


GUIDANCE TO POTENTIAL PROPOSERS


Science/engineering-driven collaboration. A central feature of successful CESER projects is a strong, mutually-dependent collaborative team comprising expertise in the target science/engineering discipline(s) and expertise in CI development and implementation. Such a collaborative approach is critical to informing and guiding the development of requirements towards the eventual development and deployment of user-centric innovative CI that fosters new pathways to discovery. Proposals pursuant to CESER should clearly identify and describe the science and engineering goals and rationale, and explain and support the potential for transformative impacts on science/engineering research and broader impacts. Proposals for technical efforts that are not well-tied to identified science and engineering researchchallenges as well as utilization scenarios are unlikely to be supported.


Exploratory and pilot activities. CESER supports early-stage exploratory efforts that may comprise analysis, community planning, and pilot-level activitiesthat are preparatory or informative for eventual future development and deployment of science/engineering-driven CI. Proposals for full-scale technical efforts leading to development/deployment should be directed to other appropriate NSF programs.


Integrative and accelerative approaches. Proposals are particularly welcomed that address identified common needs across multiple research disciplines; leverage and accelerate the impact of existing CI investments in resources and services in one or more application domains; aim to reduce barriers to broader adoption of CI-enabled science/engineering approaches; and integrate different aspects and elements of CI to achieve holistic solutions with transformative science/engineering impact.


Requirement to contact NSF Cognizant Program Officers. CESER is an inherently collaborative science/engineering-CI program. Successful CESER projects typically involve co-funding from the relevant disciplinary research programs within NSF. Consequently, before submitting a proposal to CESER, proposers must discuss their project idea with a cognizant CESER Program Officer and with the relevant NSF disciplinary research program(s) to ensure that CESER is the appropriate venue and that there is adequate disciplinary interest in the proposed effort.


Proposals that have been declined by CESER or any other NSF program may not be resubmitted to CESER without substantial revision. Proposals that do not align with CESER program objectives and guidance may be returned without review."
172,Foundational Research in Robotics,PD-20-144Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Foundational Research in Robotics (Robotics) program supports research on robotic systems that exhibit significant levels of both computational capability and physical complexity. For the purposes of this program, a robot is defined as intelligence embodied in an engineered construct, with the ability to process information, sense, and move within or substantially alter its working environment. Here intelligence includes a broad class of methods that enable a robot to solve problems or make contextually appropriate decisions. Research is welcomed that considers inextricably interwoven questions of intelligence, computation, and embodiment. Projects may also focus on a distinct aspect of intelligence, computation, or embodiment, as long as the proposed research is clearly justified in the context of a class of robots.


The focus of the Robotics program is on foundational advances in robotics. Robotics is a deeply interdisciplinary field, and proposals are encouraged that explore the full range of fundamental engineering and computer science research challenges arising in robotics. However, all proposals must convincingly explain how a successful outcome will enable transformative new robot functionality or substantially enhance existing robot functionality. The proposal should clearly articulate how the intellectual contribution of the proposed work addresses fundamental gaps in robotics. Meaningful experimental validation on a physical platform is strongly encouraged. Projects that do not represent a direct fundamental contribution to robotics should not be submitted to the Robotics program.


Potential investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss their projects with a Robotics Program Officer before submission. Non-compliant proposals may be returned without review."
173,U.S. Mission to Azerbaijan in Baku: Annual Program Statement of Public Diplomacy Programs,AZE-PAS-FY20-01,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndividuals",U.S. Mission to Azerbaijan,"A. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
The U.S. Embassy Baku Public Affairs Section (PAS) is pleased to announce that funding is available through its Annual Program Statement. U.S. Embassy Baku’s Annual Program Statement solicits proposals for projects that further the U.S. Mission’s public diplomacy goals of expanding and strengthening people-to-people ties between Azerbaijan and the United States, engaging with local media, and building and strengthening local partners through the specific objectives listed. Public diplomacy programming includes cultural programming, educational exchanges, workshops and training for entrepreneurs, English-language programming, innovation in and improvement of education systems, promoting science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, and promoting professional journalism.

All programs must include a connection with American culture, expert(s), organization(s), or institution(s) in a specific field that will promote increased understanding of U.S. policies and perspectives. Examples of PAS program activities include, but are not limited to: 

·        Academic and professional lectures, seminars, and speaker programs on the topics of entrepreneurship, STEM, education policy and reforms, among others; 
·        Artistic and cultural workshops, joint performances, and exhibitions; 
·        Professional and academic exchanges and programs;
·        English-language programming;
·        Trainings and workshops for professionals;
·        Programs to engage young people, women, or vulnerable populations.  
 
Participants and Audiences:
The intended audience for potential projects includes entrepreneurs, educators, journalists, young people, women, IDP and other vulnerable communities, persons with disabilities, and the public.   
 
B. FEDERAL AWARD INFORMATION
 
Length of performance period: 12 months maximum 
Number of awards anticipated: up to 10 awards, depending on available funds
Award amounts: awards may range from a minimum of $5,000 to a maximum of $50,000
Type of Funding: FY 20/21 Public Diplomacy Funds, pending availability of funds
Anticipated program start date: rolling

This notice is subject to availability of funding.
"
174,Developmental Centers for AIDS Research (P30 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-107,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite applications for the Developmental Centers for AIDS Research (D-CFAR) program to provide administrative and shared research support to enhance HIV/AIDS research.  D-CFARs provide core facilities, expertise, resources, and services not readily obtained otherwise through more traditional funding mechanisms.  Additionally, D-CFARs provide support to assist investigators in the development of a competitive standard CFAR.  The program emphasizes interdisciplinary collaboration across all areas of HIV/AIDS research."
175,Centers for AIDS Research (P30 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-106,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite applications for the Centers for AIDS Research (CFAR) program to provide administrative and shared research support to enhance HIV/AIDS research. CFARs provide core facilities, expertise, resources, and services not readily obtained otherwise through more traditional funding mechanisms. The program emphasizes interdisciplinary collaboration across all areas of HIV/AIDS research."
176,Environmental Health Sciences Core Centers (EHSCC) (P30 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-ES-20-006,"Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites grant applications for Environmental Health Sciences Core Centers (EHS CC). As intellectual hubs for environmental health research, the EHS CC is expected to be the thought leaders for the field and advance the goals of the NIEHS Strategic Plan (http://www.niehs.nih.gov/about/strategicplan/).The Core Centers provide critical research infrastructure, shared facilities, services and/or resources, to groups of investigators conducting environmental health sciences research."
177,National Cancer Institute Program Project Applications (P01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-077,"County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"With this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) invites applications for investigator-initiated Program Project (P01) applications. The proposed Program may address any of the broad areas of cancer research, including (but not limited to) cancer biology, cancer prevention, cancer diagnosis, cancer treatment, and cancer control. Basic, translational, clinical, and/or population-based studies in all of these research areas are appropriate. Each application submitted in response to this FOA must consist of at least three research projects and an Administrative Core. The projects must share a common central theme, focus, and/or overall objective."
178,Revision Applications to Support the Application of Informatics Technology for Cancer Research (R01 Clinical Trials Optional),RFA-CA-20-011,"City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage revision applications (formerly called ""competing revisions"") from currently funded NCI R01 research projects proposing to expand upon the original research question(s) or otherwise accelerate progress for the parent study by incorporating informatics methods, tools or resources developed through current or previous support from the NCI Informatics Technology for Cancer Research (ITCR) Program. Awards from this FOA are meant to spur novel collaborations and to incentivize the adoption, adaptation, and integration of these informatics technologies in support of the appropriate research communities. As a component of the NCI ITCR program, this FOA aims to promote interdisciplinary collaboration in the adoption and enhancement of innovative informatics methods, tools, and resources that enable cancer research and accelerate scientific discovery."
179,Development of Innovative Informatics Methods and Algorithms for Cancer Research and Management (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-CA-20-007,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite exploratory/developmental research grant applications (R21) for the development of innovative methods and algorithms in biomedical computing, informatics, and data science addressing priority needs across the cancer research continuum including cancer biology, cancer treatment and diagnosis, early cancer detection, risk assessment and prevention, cancer control and epidemiology, and/or cancer health disparities. As a component of the NCI's Informatics Technology for Cancer Research (ITCR) Program, this FOA encourages applications focused on the development of novel computational, mathematical, and statistical algorithms and methods that can considerably improve acquisition, management, analysis, and dissemination of relevant data and/or knowledge. The central mission of ITCR is to promote research-driven informatics technology across the development lifecycle to address priority needs in cancer research. In order to be successful, there must be a clear rationale for how the proposed informatics method or algorithm is novel and how it will benefit the cancer research field. Potential applicants who are interested in downstream technology development, from prototyping to hardening and adaptation, should consult the other companion FOAs listed above."
180,Research Answers to National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Provocative Questions (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-CA-20-005,"Special district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support research projects designed to solve specific problems and paradoxes in cancer research identified by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Provocative Questions Initiative. These problems and paradoxes phrased as questions are not intended to represent the full range of NCI's priorities in cancer research. Rather, they are meant to challenge researchers to think about and elucidate specific problems in key areas of cancer research that are deemed important and have not received sufficient attention. Some of these ""Provocative Questions"" (PQs) stem from intriguing but older, neglected observations that have never been adequately explored. Other PQs are built on more recent findings that are perplexing or paradoxical, revealing important gaps in current knowledge. Finally, some PQs reflect problems that traditionally have been thought to be intractable but that now may be open to investigations using new strategies and recent technical advances. The current issuance of the PQ Initiative includes an updated set of 12  PQs. Each research project proposed in response to this FOA must be focused on addressing the research problems defined by a specific PQ selected from the list. Projects proposed to address PQs may use strategies that incorporate ideas and approaches from multiple disciplines, as appropriate. Transdisciplinary projects are encouraged if they serve the scientific focus of the selected PQ"
181,Research Answers to National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Provocative Questions (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-CA-20-004,"State governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support research projects designed to solve specific problems and paradoxes in cancer research identified by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Provocative Questions Initiative. These problems and paradoxes phrased as questions are not intended to represent the full range of NCI's priorities in cancer research. Rather, they are meant to challenge researchers to think about and elucidate specific problems in key areas of cancer research that are deemed important and have not received sufficient attention. Some of these ""Provocative Questions"" (PQs) stem from intriguing but older, neglected observations that have never been adequately explored. Other PQs are built on more recent findings that are perplexing or paradoxical, revealing important gaps in current knowledge. Finally, some PQs reflect problems that traditionally have been thought to be intractable but that now may be open to investigations using new strategies and recent technical advances. The current issuance of the PQ Initiative includes an updated set of 12  PQs. Each research project proposed in response to this FOA must be focused on addressing the research problems defined by a specific PQ selected from the list. Projects proposed to address PQs may use strategies that incorporate ideas and approaches from multiple disciplines, as appropriate. Transdisciplinary projects are encouraged if they serve the scientific focus of the selected PQ."
182,Mechanisms of Disparities in Chronic Liver Diseases and Cancer (R21- Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-081,"City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the initiative is to support multidisciplinary innovative exploratory and developmental research to understand the underlying etiologic factors and the mechanisms that result in disparities in chronic liver diseases and cancer in the US.
183,Mechanisms of Disparities in Chronic Liver Diseases and Cancer (R01- Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-088,"City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the initiative is to support multidisciplinary research to understand the underlying etiologic factors and the mechanisms that result in disparities in chronic liver diseases and cancer in the US.
184,Computer Science for All,20-539,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"This program aims to provide all U.S. students with the opportunity to participate in computer science (CS) and computational thinking (CT) education in their schools at the preK-12 levels. With this solicitation, the National Science Foundation (NSF) focuses on both research and researcher-practitioner partnerships (RPPs) that foster the research and development needed to bring CS and CT to all schools. Specifically, this solicitation aims to provide (1) high school teacherswith the preparation, professional development (PD) and ongoing support they need to teach rigorous computer science courses; (2) preK-8 teachers with the instructional materials and preparation they need to integrate CS and CT into their teaching; and (3) schools and districtswith the resources needed to define and evaluate multi-grade pathways in CS and CT."
185,Engineering Next-Generation Human Nervous System Microphysiological Systems (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-20-055,"Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages research grant applications directed toward developing next-generation human cell-derived microphysiological systems (MPS) and related assays that replicate complex nervous system architectures and physiology with improved fidelity over current capabilities. Supported projects will be expected to enable future studies of complex nervous system development, function and aging in healthy and disease states."
186,Engineering Next-Generation Human Nervous System Microphysiological Systems (R21 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-20-082,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsState governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages research grant applications directed toward developing next-generation human cell-derived microphysiological systems (MPS) and related assays that replicate complex nervous system architectures and physiology with improved fidelity over current capabilities. Supported projects will be expected to enable future studies of complex nervous system development, function and aging in healthy and disease states."
187,BRAIN Initiative: Biology and Biophysics of Neural Stimulation and Recording Technologies (R01 Clinical Trials Optional),RFA-NS-20-006,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"A central goal of the BRAIN Initiative is to develop new and improved technologies suitable for recording from as well as controlling specified cell types and circuits to modulate and understand function in the central nervous system. In order to accomplish these goals, further information is needed to understand the function of current technologies used for recording or stimulating the nervous system.  This RFA accepts grant applications in two related but distinct areas. The first is to systematically characterize, model, and validate the membrane, cellular, circuit, and adaptive-biological responses of neuronal and non-neuronal cells to various types of stimulation technologies. The second is to understand the biological and bioinformatic content of signals recorded from neuronal and non-neuronal cells and circuits. Development of new technologies, therapies and disease models, are outside the scope of this FOA. Activities related to enabling the simultaneous use of multiple recording or stimulation technologies are allowed."
188,Enabling Discovery through GEnomic Tools,20-532,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Enabling Discovery through GEnomic Tools (EDGE) program supports genomic research that addresses the mechanistic basis of complex traits in diverse organisms within the context (environmental, developmental, social, and/or genomic) in which they function. The EDGE program also continues to support the development of innovative tools, technologies, resources, and infrastructure that advance biological research focused on the identification of the causal mechanisms connecting genes and phenotypes. EDGE is designed to provide support for (1) the development of tools, approaches, and infrastructure aimed at testing cause and effect hypotheses between gene function and phenotypes in diverse plants, animals, microbes, viruses, or fungi for which these methods are presently unavailable, and (2) hypothesis-driven research that tests cause and effect relations between genotype(s) and phenotypes in non-model plants, animals, microbes, viruses, or fungi.



These goals are essential to uncovering the rules that underlie genomes-to-phenomes relationships, an area relevant to Understanding the Rules of Life: Predicting Phenotype, one of the 10 Big Ideas for future NSF investment.

"
189,Algorithms for Threat Detection,20-531,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,The Algorithms for Threat Detection (ATD) program will support research projects to develop the next generation of mathematical and statistical algorithms for analysis of large spatiotemporal datasets with application to quantitative models of human dynamics. The program is a partnership between the Division of Mathematical Sciences (DMS) at the National Science Foundation (NSF) and theNational Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA).
190,Clinical Trials Development for Co-Occurring Conditions in Individuals with Down syndrome: Phased Awards for INCLUDE  (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Required),RFA-OD-20-003,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages Exploratory/Developmental Phased Innovation (R61/R33) grant applications to support development of clinical trials to treat critical and co-occurring health conditions in individuals with Down syndrome. The proposed research aims should be milestone-driven. The total project period for an application submitted in response to this FOA may not exceed five years. This FOA provides support for up to two years (R61 phase) for preliminary/developmental/planning studies, followed by possible transition of up to four years of expanded clinical trial support (R33), although the total duration of the award may not exceed five years. This FOA requires measurable R61 milestones."
191,INvestigation of Co-occurring conditions across the Lifespan to Understand Down syndromE (INCLUDE) Clinical Trial Readiness (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-OD-20-004,"Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites researchers to submit applications for support of clinical projects that address critical needs for clinical trial readiness in Down syndrome. The initiative seeks applications that are intended to facilitate Down syndrome research by enabling efficient and effective movement of candidate therapeutics or diagnostics towards clinical trials for Down syndrome and its co-occurring conditions, and to increase their likelihood of success through development and testing of biomarkers and clinical outcome assessment measures, development and testing of novel trial methods and recruitment strategies, or by defining the presentation and course of the co-occurring conditions in individuals with Down syndrome to enable the design of future clinical trials."
192,Transformative Research Award for the INCLUDE (Investigation of Co-occurring Conditions across the Lifespan to Understand Down syndrome) Project (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-OD-20-005,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH INvestigation of Co-occurring conditions across the Lifespan to Understand Down syndromE (INCLUDE) Project Transformative Research Award  supports individual scientists or groups of scientists proposing groundbreaking, exceptionally innovative, original, and/or unconventional research with the potential to create new scientific paradigms, establish entirely new and improved clinical approaches, or develop transformative technologies. Applications from individuals with diverse backgrounds and in any topic relevant to Down syndrome research are welcome. No preliminary data are required. Projects must clearly demonstrate, based on the strength of the logic, a compelling potential to produce a major impact in research related to Down syndrome."
193,Jointly Sponsored Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award Institutional Predoctoral Training Program in the Neurosciences (T32 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-076,"City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"Reissue of PAR-17-096. The Jointly Sponsored NIH Predoctoral Training Program in the Neurosciences (JSPTPN) is an institutional program that supports broad and fundamental research training in the neurosciences. In addition to a broad education in the neurosciences, a key component will be a curriculum that provides a strong foundation in experimental design, statistical methodology and quantitative reasoning. JSPTPN programs are intended to be 2 years in duration and students may only be appointed to this training grant during the first 2 years of their graduate research training. The primary objective is to prepare students to be outstanding scientists equipped to pursue careers in neuroscience."
194,Revision Applications for Validation of Biomarker Assays Developed Through NIH-Supported Research Grants (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-074,"Small businessesIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to accelerate the pace of translation of NCI-supported methods/assays/technologies (referred to as ""assays"") to the clinic. Specifically, the focus of this FOA is on the adaption and clinical validation of molecular/cellular/imaging markers (referred to as ""markers"" r ""biomarkers"") for cancer detection, diagnosis, prognosis, monitoring, and prediction of response in treatment, as well as markers for cancer control and prevention. Research applications may support the acquisition of well-annotated specimens from NCI-supported or other clinical trials or observational cohorts/consortia for the purpose of clinical validation of the assay. Research projects proposed for this FOA encourage multi-disciplinary interaction among scientific investigators, assay developers, clinicians, statisticians, and clinical laboratory staff. Clinical laboratory scientist(s) and statistical experts are highly encouraged to comprise integral parts of the application. This FOA is not intended to support early-stage development of technology or the conduct of clinical trials, but rather the adaption and validation of assays to the point where they could be integrated into clinical trials as investigational assays/tools/devices."
195,Small Research Grants for Establishing Basic Science-Clinical Collaborations to Understand Structural Birth Defects (R03 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-065,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsSmall businessesCity or township governmentsState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to promote initial establishment of basic science-clinical collaborations by providing small grants to teams of basic scientists, physician scientists, and/or clinicians.  These interdisciplinary teams may include but are not limited to the following: developmental biologists, cell biologists, geneticists, genomicists, physician scientists including individuals with DVM/VMD degrees, clinicians, epidemiologists, biostatisticians, and/or bioinformaticists."
196,Co-infection and Cancer (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-061,"Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This initiative seeks to enhance our mechanistic and epidemiologic understanding of infection-related cancers, with a focus on the etiologic roles of co-infection in cancer. Preference will be given to investigations of co-infections with known oncogenic agents (e.g., Helicobacter pylori [H. pylori] and Epstein Barr virus [EBV]; excluding human immunodeficiency virus [HIV]) and of co-infections that engendered novel opportunities for prevention and treatment. Coinfection is defined as the occurrence of infections by two or more infectious (pathogenic or nonpathogenic) agents  either concurrently or sequentially  and includes both acute and chronic infections by viruses, bacteria, parasites, and/or other microorganisms."
197,Co-infection and Cancer (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-062,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This initiative seeks to enhance our mechanistic and epidemiologic understanding of infection-related cancers, with a focus on the etiologic roles of co-infection in cancer. Preference will be given to investigations of co-infections with known oncogenic agents (e.g., Helicobacter pylori [H. pylori] and Epstein Barr virus [EBV]; excluding human immunodeficiency virus [HIV]) and of co-infections that engendered novel opportunities for prevention and treatment. Coinfection is defined as the occurrence of infections by two or more infectious (pathogenic or nonpathogenic) agents  either concurrently or sequentially  and includes both acute and chronic infections by viruses, bacteria, parasites, and/or other microorganisms."
198,BRAIN Initiative Advanced Postdoctoral Career Transition Award to Promote Diversity (K99/R00 Independent Clinical Trial Required),RFA-NS-19-044,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH BRAIN Initiative Advanced Postdoctoral Career Transition Award to Promote Diversity (K99/R00) program is to enhance workforce diversity in the neuroscience workforce and maintain a strong cohort of new and talented, NIH-supported, independent investigators from diverse backgrounds in BRAIN Initiative research areas. This program is designed to facilitate a timely transition of outstanding postdoctoral researchers with a research and/or clinical doctorate degree from mentored, postdoctoral research positions to independent, tenure-track or equivalent faculty positions. The program will provide independent NIH research support during this transition in order to help awardees to launch competitive, independent research careers. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary study to an existing trial, as part of their research and career development. Applicants not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion FOA."
199,BRAIN Initiative Advanced Postdoctoral Career Transition Award to Promote Diversity (K99/R00  Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-NS-19-043,"County governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or an ancillary study to a clinical trial. Applicants to this FOA are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by a mentor or co-mentor. Applicants proposing a clinical trial or an ancillary study to an ongoing clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion FOA."
200,Program to Assess the Rigor and Reproducibility of Extracellular Vesicle-Derived Analytes for Cancer Detection (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-20-053,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages research projects that focus on innovative research in the isolation and characterization of extracellular vesicles (EVs) and their cargo for discovery of predictive biomarkers for risk assessment, detection, diagnosis and prognosis of early cancer. This FOA will promote rigor and reproducibility research in both the isolation of EVs as well as the computational analysis of the cargo carried in these vesicles."
201,"NCI Small Grants Program for Cancer Research for Years 2020, 2021, and 2022 (NCI Omnibus R03 Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-20-052,"Private institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) supports small research projects on cancer that can be carried out in a short period of time with limited resources. The R03 grant mechanism supports different types of projects including pilot and feasibility studies; secondary analysis of existing data; small, self-contained research projects; development of research methodology; and development of new research technology."
202,Research to Action: Assessing and Addressing Community Exposures to Environmental Contaminants (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-ES-20-002,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsState governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement encourages applications using community-engaged research methods to investigate the potential health risks of environmental exposures of concern to the community and to implement an environmental public health action plan based on research findings. The overall goal is to inform changes and to support efforts to prevent or reduce exposure to harmful environmental exposures and improve the health of a community.
203,Cyberinfrastructure Centers of Excellence,PD-20-139Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Nation’s advanced research cyberinfrastructure (CI) ecosystem catalyzes discovery and innovation across all areas of science and engineering (S&E) research and education. The increasingly complex and rapidly evolving S&E landscape requires an agile, integrated, robust, trustworthy, and sustainable CI ecosystem that will drive new thinking and transformative discoveries in all areas of research and education.


The success of this vision depends on the ability of the research community to be able to easily and effectively access and use state-of-the-art research CI resources and services in a timely way. This, in turn, drives a set of requirements on the development, operation, and evolution of the CI ecosystem. First, research CI resources and services must be designed to leverage and drive innovations, and they must be user-centric and interoperable to enable the efficient, flexible end-to-end discovery pathways that are increasingly essential for the conduct of research. Second, the information, expertise, and services needed to maximally utilize the CI ecosystem must be disseminated broadly and concertedly to the research community.


The NSF Cyberinfrastructure Centers of Excellence (CI CoE) Program aims to realize the above vision by supporting hubs of expertise and innovation targeting specific areas, aspects, or stakeholder communities of the research CI ecosystem. Supported CI CoEs provide expertise and services related to CI technologies and solutions; gather, develop, and communicate community best practices; and serve as readily-available resources for both the research community and the CI community. A key objective of this program is to support CI CoEs that drive advancements in and positively impact the CI ecosystem through structured but strongly community-engaging and community-serving approaches.Overall, CI CoEs are a means of concentrating resources on a specific area of identified need in support of the broader goal of advancing capabilities and performance of the national CI ecosystem [1].


Activities. Successful CI CoE projects will perform a range of functions such as:


Exploring emerging technologies, disruptions, opportunities, and community needs, and developing proactive design and adoption strategies, practices, and other approaches in response;
Nurturing communities of stakeholders and experts in their area(s) of focus (foci) with the overall goal of achieving self-sustaining communities of practice; and
Providing services, training, and outreach to target communities.


Topics and Pathways. NSF anticipates creating such CI CoEs in response to specific needs and gaps. NSF anticipates issuing Dear Colleague Letters to indicate interest in pilot CI CoE proposals on particular focus areas. NSF may initially invest in two-year pilot CI CoE projects which aim to develop concepts and plans and demonstrate feasibility through pilot activities as preparatory precursors to eventual proposals for establishing full-scale CI CoEs. The level of support for pilot CI CoE projects is expected to vary, based on the topic and range of activities proposed.


Lifecycle and expected endpoint. CI CoEs are typically expected to operate for five years and may be renewed, subject to the outcome of performance reviews, NSF prioritization, continuing demonstrated need for the CI CoE, and availability of funds, consistent with NSF merit review principles.


Guidance to proposers. Individuals interested in submitting a proposal for a CI CoE project are strongly encouraged to discuss their project idea with the cognizant CI CoE Program Director(s) in the relevant areas prior to submission. Additional guidance may be provided in Dear Colleague Letters issued to announce interest in pilot CI CoE proposals on particular focus areas.

[1] An example is the NSF Cybersecurity Center of Excellence, Trusted CI, https://trustedci.org."
204,Cancer Center Support Grants (CCSGs) for NCI-designated Cancer Centers (P30 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-043,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for P30 Cancer Center Support Grants (CCSGs) to support NCI-designated Cancer Centers. CCSGs support two types of cancer centers: 1) Comprehensive Cancer Centers, which demonstrate reasonable depth and breadth of research activities in each of three major areas: basic laboratory; clinical; and prevention, control and population-based research, and which have substantial transdisciplinary research that bridges these scientific areas; and 2) Cancer Centers, which are primarily focused on basic laboratory; clinical; and prevention, cancer control, and population-based research; or some combination of these areas. The purpose of both types of NCI-designated Cancer Centers is to capitalize on all institutional cancer research capabilities, integrating meritorious programs in laboratory, clinical, and population research into a single transdisciplinary research enterprise across all institutional boundaries. Cancer Centers supported through this FOA are expected to serve as major sources of discovery of the nature of cancer and of development of more effective approaches to prevention, diagnosis, and therapy; to contribute significantly to the development of shared resources that support research; to collaborate and coordinate their research efforts with other NCI-funded programs and investigators; and to disseminate research findings for the benefit of the community."
205,Air Superiority Technology Broad Agency Announcement,FA8651-20-S-0008,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",Munitions Directorate,Broad Agency Announcement for Air Superiority Technology
206,Integrative Research on Polysubstance Abuse and Disorder (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-035,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is supported by Collaborative Research on Addiction (CRAN) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), a trans-NIH partnership composed of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), and the National Cancer Institute (NCI). The intent of this FOA is two-fold: (1) characterize how the neurobiological alterations, associated behaviors, and public health consequences arising from polysubstance use differ from, or are similar to, those observed in single drug use; (2) promote integrative polysubstance research along a translational pipeline, consisting of basic science research in animals, human-based laboratory investigations, and epidemiological studies. These dual objectives will be accomplished with an Exploratory/Developmental Phased Award (R61/R33) mechanism, where polysubstance research can occur in any of these translational stages during the R61 phase and these findings will be rapidly back- or forward-integrated into another stage during the R33 phase, permitting accelerated bi-directional research exchange."
207,Fundamental Mechanisms of Affective and Decisional Processes in Cancer Control (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-034,"Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage projects to generate fundamental knowledge of affective processes. Basic affective science projects should have key consequences for single (e.g., cancer screening) and multiple (e.g., adherence to oral chemotherapy regimen) event decisions and behaviors across the cancer prevention and control continuum. The FOA is expected to encourage collaboration among cancer control researchers and those from scientific disciplines not traditionally connected to cancer control applications (e.g., affective and cognitive neuroscience, decision science, consumer science) to elucidate perplexing and understudied problems in affective and decision sciences with downstream implications for cancer prevention and control."
208,HIV-associated Non-Communicable Diseases Research at Low- and Middle-Income Country Institutions (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-20-030,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The goal of this -program is to support locally relevant research in critical areas of HIV-associated non-communicable diseases (NCDs) at Low- and Middle-Income Country (LMIC) Institutions, to enhance research capacity and build a network of researchers both within and across LMICs to address this critical burden. This initiative is expected to stimulate new research on the interplay between HIV and development of NCDs in persons living with HIV (PLWH), including exploratory studies to uncover the extent to which HIV infection influences the etiopathogenesis of the NCDs; and to identify and develop appropriate approaches for effective diagnosis, prevention, therapeutic interventions and integrated clinical care for PLWH with the comorbid conditions. Applicants should develop their studies in keeping with the NIH HIV/AIDS Research Priorities ( https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-15-137.html ). Research teams should contain an appropriate mix of expertise to accomplish the proposed studies, including partnerships between HIV and NCD researchers who can initiate new ideas and determine feasibility of novel approaches to understand and reduce the long-term suffering from the comorbid disorders. Applicants will also be asked to address the needs of collaborating LMIC institutions to develop capacity for carrying out research in this field. U.S. and LMIC investigators are eligible to apply for collaborative projects to be done at LMIC sites; however, a U.S. investigator must apply together with an LMIC investigator. LMICs are defined by the World Bank classification system according to Gross National Income (GNI) per capita as low-income, lower-middle-income, and upper-middle-income (http://data.worldbank.org/about/country-classifications/country-and-lending-groups"
209,Perception and Cognition Research to Inform Cancer Image Interpretation (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-389,"Private institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to facilitate research on the perceptual and cognitive processes underlying the performance of cancer image observers in radiology and pathology, in order to improve the accuracy of cancer detection and diagnosis."
210,Perception and Cognition Research to Inform Cancer Image Interpretation (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-387,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to facilitate research on the perceptual and cognitive processes underlying the performance of cancer image observers in radiology and pathology, in order to improve the accuracy of cancer detection and diagnosis."
211,Environmental Risks for Psychiatric Disorders: Biological Basis of Pathophysiology (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-385,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate research to understand the biological basis by which environmental exposures alter brain and behavioral functioning to increase risk for psychiatric disorders with onset in late-childhood, adolescence or early adulthood.  The R21 grant mechanism is intended to encourage exploratory and developmental research projects that are high-risk and/or use novel approaches with potential for significant impact.   Investigations that further advance our understanding of psychiatric conditions where there is less evidence of an environmental exposure link are of particular interest. A range of approaches are encouraged, from mechanistic experiments using whole organism models or in vitro and in vivo systems to human studies that add new data collection activities and/or make use of extant data or biospecimens.  Investigations that further advance our understanding of the joint contribution of genes and environment in the risk for psychiatric disorders are welcomed.  Applications should address either categorically defined psychiatric diagnoses and/or continuous traits expressed in the general population.  Applicants are encouraged to propose studies that consider co-occurring psychiatric conditions and potential shared etiologies. It is anticipated that knowledge gained from the research supported by this FOA will inform the development of improved intervention, prevention and/or therapeutic strategies. This FOA will use the NIH Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant (R21) award mechanism and runs in parallel with another FOA, PAR-20-NNN, which encourages applications under the R01 mechanism."
212,Environmental Risks for Psychiatric Disorders: Biological Basis of Pathophysiology (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-386,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate research to understand the biological basis by which environmental exposures alter brain and behavioral functioning to increase risk for psychiatric disorders with onset in late-childhood, adolescence or early adulthood.  A range of approaches are encouraged, from mechanistic experiments using whole organism models or in vitro and in vivo systems to human studies that add new data collection activities and/or make use of extant data or biospecimens.  Investigations that further advance our understanding of the joint contribution of genes and environment in the risk for psychiatric disorders are welcomed.  Applications should address either categorically defined psychiatric diagnoses and/or continuous traits expressed in the general population. Applicants are encouraged to propose studies that consider co-occurring psychiatric conditions and potential shared etiologies. It is anticipated that knowledge gained from the research supported by this FOA will inform the development of improved intervention, prevention and/or therapeutic strategies. This FOA will use the NIH Research Project Grant (R01) award mechanism and runs in parallel with another FOA, PAR-20-NNN, which encourages applications under the R21 mechanism."
213,The Intersection of Sex and Gender Influences on Health and Disease (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-OD-19-029,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite R01 applications on at the influence and intersection of sex and gender in health and disease including:  (1) research proposals that examine sex and gender factors and their intersection in understanding health and disease; and (2) research that addresses one of the five research priorities in the new 2019-2023 Trans-NIH Strategic Plan for Women's Health Research ""Advancing Science for the Health of Women."" The awards under this FOA will be administered through by NIH ICs using funds that have been made available through the Office of Research on Womens Health (ORWH) and the scientific partnering Institutes and Centers across NIH."
214,"Science of Science: Discovery, Communication, and Impact",PD-19-125Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Science of Science:Discovery, Communication, and Impact (SoS:DCI) program is designed to increase the public value of scientific activity. The program pursues this goal by supporting basic research in three fundamental areas:



How to increase the rate of socially beneficial discovery;


How to improve science communication outcomes; and


How to expand the societal benefits of scientific activity.



The SoS:DCI program, which builds upon the formerScience of Science & Innovation Policy (SciSIP)program, funds research that builds theoretical and empirical understandings of these three areas. With this goal in mind, proposals should:


Develop data, models, indicators, and associated analytical tools that constitute and enable transformative advances rather than incremental change.
Identify ethical challenges and mitigate potential risks to people and institutions.

Provide credible metrics and rigorous assessments of their proposed project’s impact.


Include robust data management plans with the goal to increase the usability, validity, and reliability of scientific materials. See PAPPG Chapter II.C.2.j and Data Management for NSF SBE Directorate Proposals and Awards for additional information (https://www.nsf.gov/sbe/DMP/SBE_DataMgmtPlanPolicy_RevisedApril2018.pdf).



The SoS:DCI program places a high priority on broadening participation. It encourages leadership from junior faculty, women, members of historically underrepresented groups, and proposals from Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), Research Undergraduate Institutions (RUIs), and EPSCoR states.


Of particular interest are proposals that have the highest potential to strengthen America’s global leadership in science and increase national competitiveness across a broad range of domains. These include proposals that analyze strategies for strengthening and diversifying the scientific workforce, as well as ways to more effectively cultivate high-impact discovery across sectors.The program strongly encourages convergent research and collaboration.


RAPIDs and EAGERsSoS:DCI supports small grants that are time-critical and small grants that are high-risk and of a potentially transformative nature. See Chapter II.E.1 and Chapter II.E.2of the NSFProposal and Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) (NSF 19-1)(https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp) for guidance on submitting Grants for Rapid Response Research (RAPID) and EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER) proposals.


Research Advanced by Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering (RAISE)SoS:DCI supports interdisciplinary projects whose scientific advances lie in great part outside the scope of a single program or discipline, such that substantial funding support from more than one program or discipline is necessary. See Chapter II.E.3of the NSFProposal and Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) (NSF 19-1)(https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp) for guidance on submitting a RAISE proposal.


Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)SoS:DCI supports collaboration between academic research institutions and industry. SeeChapter II.E.4of the NSFProposal and Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) (NSF 19-1)(https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp) for guidance on submitting a GOALI proposal.


Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER)SoS:DCI supports CAREER awards. The Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program is a foundation-wide activity that offers the National Science Foundation's most prestigious awards in support of early-career faculty who have the potential to serve as academic role models in research and education and to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization. Activities pursued by early-career faculty should build a firm foundation for a lifetime of leadership in integrating education and research. NSF encourages submission of CAREER proposals from early-career faculty at all CAREER-eligible organizations and especially encourages women, members of underrepresented minority groups and persons with disabilities to apply. Interested researchers can find additional information on the NSF CAREER website.


ConferencesSoS:DCIfunds conferences and interdisciplinary research activities that strengthenunderstanding and dissemination of the research topic among the social and behavioral sciences, policy community and the larger scientific community. See Chapter II.E.7 of the NSF Proposal and Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) (NSF 19-1) (https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp) for guidance on submitting Conference proposals.


Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIGs)The Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants funding opportunity is designed to improve the quality of dissertation research. DDRIG awards provide funds for items not normally available through the student's university such as enabling doctoral students to undertake significant data-gathering projects and to conduct field research in settings away from their campus. For program specific guidelines and submission instructions on the Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grants (DDRIGs) in SoS:DCI, please review the SoS:DCI DDRIG solicitation which may be accessed via theSoS:DCI DDRIG web site."
215,Interfacial Engineering,PD-20-1417,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Interfacial Engineering program is part of the Chemical Process Systems cluster, which also includes: 1) the Catalysis program; 2) the Electrochemical Systems program; and 3) the Process Systems, Reaction Engineering, and Molecular Thermodynamics program.


The goal of the Interfacial Engineering program is to support fundamental research on atomic- and molecular-scale interfacial phenomena and engineering of interfacial properties, processes, and materials. Fundamental understanding of the thermodynamic, kinetic, and transport properties of interfacial systems underpins improvements in chemical process efficiency and resource utilization. As such, proposed research should have a clear vision for how the results will translate to practice in or otherwise advance industrial chemical or biochemical processes. The program encourages proposals that present new approaches to long-standing challenges or address emerging research areas and technologies. Collaborative and interdisciplinary proposals are also encouraged, particularly those that involve a combination of experiment with theory or modeling.


Major research areas of interest in the program include:


· Chemical separations: Design of scalable mass separating agents (for example, sorbents and membranes); field-induced separation processes that target a significant reduction in energy and/or materials requirements.


· Biological separations: Downstream processing of biologically-derived chemicals, therapeutic proteins, and biologics for increased throughput and purity; engineering interfaces for molecular recognition.


· Interfacial phenomena at engineered interfaces and surfaces: Kinetics and thermodynamics of adsorption/desorption and complex interactions of molecules and ions at engineered interfaces and surfaces (for example, adsorption and nucleation).


· Nanoconfinement and engineered surfaces: Theory, modeling, and/or approaches for examining transport and thermodynamic properties of fluids within nanopores, under nanoconfinement, or at highly engineered surfaces.


NOTE:Studies that focus on interactions of nanomaterials and nanosystems, particularly as relevant to environmental or biological applications, may be more appropriate for the Nanoscale Interactions program (CBET 1179). Studies of how interfacial dynamics affect transport or bulk properties of multiphase systems may be more appropriate for the Particulate and Multiphase Processes program (CBET 1415). Please consult with program directors prior to submission if you have questions about programmatic fit.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommened that the PI contact the Program Director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field.Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research.The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of principal investigator time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the Program Director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the Program Director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate.Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E.


COMPLIANCE: Proposals which are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
216,Science of Learning and Augmented Intelligence (SL),PD-19-127Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Science of Learning and Augmented Intelligence (SL) supports potentially transformative research that develops basic theoretical insights and fundamental knowledge about principles, processes and mechanisms of learning, and about augmented intelligence - how human cognitive function can be augmented through interactions with others, contextual variations, and technological advances.


The program supportsresearch addressing learning in individuals and in groups, across a wide range of domains at one or more levels of analysis including: molecular/cellular mechanisms; brain systems; cognitive, affective, and behavioral processes; and social/cultural influences.


The program also supports research on augmented intelligence that clearly articulates principled ways in which human approaches to learning and related processes, such as in design, complex decision-making and problem-solving, can be improved through interactions with others, and/or the use of artificial intelligence in technology. These could include ways of using knowledge about human functioning to improve the design of collaborative technologies that have capabilities to learn to adapt to humans.


For both aspects of the program, there is special interest in collaborative and collective models of learning and/or intelligence that are supported by the unprecedented speed and scale of technological connectivity. This includes emphasis on how people and technology working together in new ways and at scale can achieve more than either can attain alone. The program also seeks explanations for how the emergent intelligence of groups, organizations, and networks intersects with processes of learning, behavior and cognition in individuals.


Projects that are convergent and/or interdisciplinary may be especially valuable in advancing basic understanding of these areas, but research within a single discipline or methodology is also appropriate.Connections between proposed research and specific technological, educational, and workforce applications will be considered as valuable broader impacts but are not necessarily central to the intellectual merit of proposed research. The program supports a variety of approaches including: experiments, field studies, surveys, computational modeling, and artificial intelligence/machine learning methods.


Examples of general research questions within scope of Science of Learning and Augmented Intelligence (SL)include:


What are the underlying mechanisms that support transfer of learning from one context to another or from one domain to another? How is learning generalized from a small set of specific experiences? What is the basis for robust learning that is resilient against potential interference from new experiences? How is learning consolidated and reconsolidated from transient experience to stable memory?
How do human interactions with technologies, imbued with artificial intelligence, provide improved human task performance? What models best describe the interplay of the individual and collaborative processes that lead to co-creation of knowledge and collective intelligence? In what ways do the capacities and constraints of human cognition inform improved methods of human-artificial intelligence collaboration?
How can we integrate research findings and insights across levels of analysis, relating understanding of cellular and molecular mechanisms of learning in the neurons to circuit and systems-level computations of learning in the brain, to cognitive, affective, social, and behavioral processes of learning? What is the relationship between assembly of new networks (development) and learning new knowledge in a maturing/mature brain? What concepts, tools (including Big Data, machine learning, and other computational models), or questions will provide the most productive linkages across levels of analysis?
How can insights from biological learners contribute and derive new theoretic perspectives to artificial intelligence, neuromorphic engineering, materials science, and nanotechnology? How can the ability of biological systems to learn from relatively few examples improve efficiency of artificial systems? How do learning systems (biological and artificial) address complex issues of causal reasoning? How can knowledge about the ways in which humans learn help in the design of human-machine interfaces?
"
217,"Research on biopsychosocial factors of social connectedness and isolation on health, wellbeing, illness, and recovery (R01 Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required)",PAR-19-384,"Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) solicits research projects that seek to explain the underlying mechanisms, processes, and trajectories of social relationships and how these factors affect outcomes in human health, illness, recovery, and overall wellbeing. Types of projects submitted under this FOA include studies that prospectively assign human participants to conditions (i.e., experimentally manipulate independent variables) and that assess biomedical and/or behavioral outcomes in humans to understand fundamental aspects of phenomena related to social connectedness and isolatedness. NIH considers such studies as prospective basic science studies involving human participants that meet the NIH definition of basic research and fall within the NIH definition of a clinical trials (see, e.g., NOT-OD-19-024)"
218,"Research on biopsychosocial factors of social connectedness and isolation on health, wellbeing, illness, and recovery (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed)",PAR-19-373,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) solicits research projects that seek to model the underlying mechanisms, processes, and trajectories of social relationships and how these factors affect outcomes in health, illness, recovery, and overall wellbeing. Both animal and human subjects research projects are welcome. Researchers proposing basic science experimental studies involving human participants should consider this FOAs companion for basic experimental studies with humans."
219,Patient Activation for Self-Management of Chronic Conditions (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-381,"For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement is to encourage grant applications that address the influence of patient activation on self-management of chronic conditions.
220,Patient Activation for Self-Management of Chronic Conditions (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-382,"State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement is to encourage grant applications that address the influence of patient activation on self-management of chronic conditions.
221,Mobile Health: Technology and Outcomes in Low and Middle Income Countries (R21/R33 - Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-376,"Small businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage exploratory/developmental research applications that propose to study the development, validation, feasibility, and effectiveness of innovative mobile health (mHealth) interventions or tools specifically suited for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) that utilize new or emerging technology, platforms, systems, or analytics. The overall goal of the program is to catalyze innovation through multidisciplinary research that addresses global health problems, develop an evidence base for the use of mHealth technology to improve clinical and public health outcomes, and strengthen mHealth research capacity in LMICs. Applicants are required to propose partnerships between at least one U.S. institution and one LMIC institution."
222,Omics-guided Biobehavioral Interventions for Improved Health Outcomes: A Step Forward in Translation (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-377,"Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research that harnesses the wealth of advances in the fields of genomics and other omics (e.g., metabolomics, microbiomics, proteomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, etc.) to incorporate these advances into translatable, personalized biobehavioral interventions for improved health outcomes."
223,Small Research Grants for Analyses of Gabriella Miller Kids First Pediatric Research Data (R03 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-375,"State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Common Fund has established the Gabriella Miller Kids First Pediatric Research Program (Kids First) to develop a pediatric research data resource populated by genome sequence and phenotypic data that will be of high value for the communities of investigators who study the genetics of childhood cancers and/or structural birth defects. Kids First has established and continues to develop a Data Resource including a collection of curated genomic and phenotypic data from childhood cancer and structural birth defects cohorts and a central portal where these data and analysis tools are accessible to the research community. Access to these data will promote comprehensive and cross-cutting research and collaboration leading to more refined diagnostic capabilities and ultimately more targeted therapies. This FOA is intended to support meritorious small research projects focused on analyses of childhood cancer and/or structural birth defects genomic datasets generated by the Kids First program and/or associated phenotypic datasets. Development of approaches, tools, or algorithms appropriate for analyzing genomic, phenotypic, and/or clinical data relevant to Kids First may also be proposed"
224,Biosensing,PD-20-7909,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Biosensing program is part of the Engineering Biology and Health cluster, which also includes 1) the Biophotonics program; 2) the Cellular and Biochemical Engineering program; 3) the Disability and Rehabilitation Engineering program; and 4) the Engineering of Biomedical Systems program.


The Biosensing program supports fundamental engineering research in the monitoring, identification and/or quantification of biological analytes and phenomena using innovations that exist at the intersection of engineering, life sciences, and information technology. Projects submitted to the program must advance both engineering and life sciences.

The Biosensing program encourages proposals that, in addition to advancing biosensing technology, address critical sensor needs in biomedical research, public health, food safety, agriculture, forensics, environmental protection, and homeland security.

Proposals are especially encouraged in areas of critical need: sensing technologies that can enable monitoring and surveillance of the environment and/or individuals for novel infectious agents; platform technologies that can readily be modified as soon as new agents are detected, sequenced, and/or otherwise characterized to enable rapid deployment of sensors in clinics and the environment; and adaptive and/or multiplex sensing technologies that can help the nation prevent the spread of the next global pandemic.


Major areas of interest for the program include:


Novel signal transduction principles and mechanisms that enable sensitive and specific biosensors, suitable for measurements in multiple areas;
Design of novel biorecognition elements and appropriately designed transducing systems to enable adaptable and/or reconfigurable operating parameters in response to environmental changes or application needs at levels of device, system, or data analysis;
Development of adaptive and/or evolvable biosensing systems for detection of novel target analytes or analytes under novel conditions;
Novel synthetic biology approaches for the development of cell-free and cell-based biosensors; and
Combining biosensors with artificial intelligence (AI) methods to improve sensor specificity and response time.


Innovative ideas outside of the above specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


The Biosensors program does not encourage proposals addressing circuit design for signal processing and amplification, computational modeling, and microfluidics for sample separation and filtration. Medical imaging-based measurements are outside of the scope of the program interests. Proposals that rely heavily on descriptive approaches are given lower priority. Proposals for optimizing and/or utilizing established methods for specific applications should be directed to programs focused on the application of sensor technology.


NOTE: Projects related to water and/or soil quality may be jointly supported with the Environmental Engineering program (CBET 1440). Photonic devices with medical imaging and/or optogenetics should be submitted to the Biophotonics program (CBET 7236). Applications of devices for tissue engineering or organ-on-chip systems should be submitted to the Engineering of Biomedical Systems program (CBET 5345). Basic chemical/biochemical sensing mechanisms should be submitted to the Chemical Measurement and Imaging program (CMI 6880) in the Division of Chemistry. Proposals for dynamic biosensing systems, including circuit design for signal/data processing and amplification, and sensing systems through communication and machine learning should be submitted to the Communications, Circuits, and Sensing-Systems program (CCSS 7564) in the Division of Electrical, Communications, and Cyber Systems.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field.Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research.The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the ?What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)? link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged.Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
225,Environmental Engineering,PD-20-1440,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Environmental Engineering program is part of the Environmental Engineering and Sustainability cluster, which also includes 1) the Nanoscale Interactions program; and 2) the Environmental Sustainability program.


Environmental engineering is an interdisciplinary field that applies chemical, biological, and physical scientific principles to protect human and ecological health.


The goal of the Environmental Engineering program is tosupport potentially transformative fundamental research that applies scientific and engineering principles to 1) prevent, minimize, or re-use solid, liquid, and gaseous discharges of pollution to soil, water, and air by closing resource loops or through other measures; 2) mitigate the ecological and human-health impacts of such releases by smart/adaptive/reactive amendments or manipulation of the environment, and 3) remediate polluted environments through engineered chemical, biological, and/or geo-physical processes.


Integral to achieving these goals is a fundamental understanding of the transport and biogeochemical reactivity of pollutants in the environment. Therefore, research on environmental micro/biology, environmental chemistry, and environmental geophysics may be relevant providing the research has a clear objective of protecting human and ecological health.


Major areas of interest include (but are not limited to): 


Building afuture without pollution or waste: Investigation of innovative biogeochemical processes that prevent or minimize the production of waste; waste valorization and other research that will lead to new technologies toextract resources from waste streams to close the resource loop.
Sustainable supply and protection ofwater: Investigation of innovative biogeochemical processesthat remove, biologically or chemically transform, and/or prevent therelease of contaminants in surface and groundwater; innovative processesfor recovery of water, nutrients, and other resources from wastewater,saline water, or brines; innovative approaches to smart and adaptive management of surface water, groundwater, and urban watersheds and storm water to maintain/improve quality and prevent downstream impacts from nutrients and other water constituents.
Environmentalchemistry, fate, and transport of nutrients and contaminants of emergingconcern in air, water, soils, and sediments:Investigation of transport and biogeochemical reactivity in theenvironment; environmental forensics to identify sources and reaction pathways; field- and laboratory scale experimental research that bridgesgaps between data and predictions from molecular, continuum, and field-scale modeling.
Environmentalengineering of the built environment: Research to understand the biogeochemical reactivity of the builtenvironment with the goal of enhancing and improving human and ecological health; research that will lead to new technologies to improve outdoor and indoor air quality; research to understand how drinking water and wastewater chemical characteristics and microbial community structure impact or are affected by water quality and human health.


NOTE: Proposals with a scientific focus on chemical or physical separation processes (for example, materials or processes for reverse osmosis, membrane distillation, and hypo-filtration) should be submitted to the Interfacial Engineering program (CBET 1417). Proposals that seek to advance fundamental and quantitative understanding of the behaviors of nanomaterials and nanosystems should be submitted to the Nanoscale Interactions program (CBET 1179). Proposals focused on in vitro molecular-level environmental chemistry research should be submitted to Environmental Chemical Sciences program (CHE-ECS 6882). Proposals focusing on industrial ecology, green engineering, and ecological/earth systems engineering should be submitted to the Environmental Sustainability program (CBET 7643). Proposals whose main research focus is on materials development, sensors, or environmental monitoring that do not seek to understand biogeochemical reactivity mechanisms or treatment efficiency are not encouraged and may be returned without review.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate.Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission.Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged.Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
226,Particulate and Multiphase Processes,PD-20-1415,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Particulate and Multiphase Processes program is part of the Transport Phenomena cluster, which also includes 1) the Combustion and Fire Systems program; 2) the Fluid Dynamics program; and 3) the Thermal Transport Processes program.


The goal of the Particulate and Multiphase Processes program is to support fundamental research on physico-chemical phenomena that govern particulate and multiphase systems, including flow of suspensions, drops and bubbles, granular and granular-fluid flows, behavior of micro- and nanostructured fluids, unique characteristics of active fluids, and self assembly/directed-assembly processes that involve particulates. The program encourages transformative research to improve our basic understanding of particulate and multiphase processes with emphasis on research that demonstrates how particle-scale phenomena affect the behavior and dynamics of larger-scale systems. Although proposed research should focus on fundamentals, a clear vision is required that anticipates how results could benefit important applications in advanced manufacturing, energy harvesting, transport in biological systems, biotechnology, or environmental sustainability. Collaborative and interdisciplinary proposals are encouraged, especially those that involve a combination of experiment with theory or modeling. 


Major research areas of interest in the program include:


Multiphase flow phenomena: Dynamics of particle/bubble/droplet systems, behavior of structured fluids (colloids/ferro-fluids), granular flows, rheology of multiphase systems, unique characteristics of active fluids, and novel approaches that relate micro- and nanoscale phenomena to macroscale properties and process-level variables.
Particle science and technology: Aerosols, production of particles and polymer-particle complexes with engineered properties, self-assembly, directed assembly, and template-directed assembly of particles into functional materials and devices.
Multiphase transport in biological systems: Analysis of physiological processes, applications of functionalized nanostructures in clinical diagnostics and therapeutics.
Interfacial transport: Dynamics of particles and macromolecules at interfaces, kinetics of adsorption and desorption of nanoparticles and surfactants and their spatial distributions at interfaces, complex molecular interactions at interfaces, formation of interfacial complexes that affect the dynamics of particles.


NOTE: Proposals that explore fluid-structure interactions involving electrodes in engineering applications such as energy storage should be directed to ENG/CBET Electrochemical Systems program. Proposals that involve drops or bubbles bouncing off solid surfaces should be directed toward ENG/CBET Fluid Dynamics program. Proposals that deal with engineered surfaces for carrying out chemical or biochemical reactions or separations should be directed to ENG/CBET Interfacial Engineering program. Proposals dealing mainly with particle synthesis may be more suitable for the ENG/CMMI Advanced Manufacturing program or the Division of Materials Research (DMR) in the Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS) Directorate.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered; however, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/or potentially transformative nature of the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year (awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts) link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.   


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants for Rapid Response Research (RAPID) and EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER) are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) will be returned without review.


 


 "
227,Combustion and Fire Systems,PD-20-1407,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Combustion and Fire Systemsprogram is part of the Transport Phenomena cluster, which also includes 1) the Fluid Dynamics program; 2) the Particulate and Multiphase Processes program; and 3) the Thermal Transport Processes program.


The goal of theCombustion and Fire Systemsprogram is to advance energy conversion efficiency, improve energy security, enable cleaner environments, and enhance public safety.


The program endeavors to createfundamental scientific knowledge that is needed for useful combustion applications and for mitigating the effects of fire.The program aims to identify and understand the controlling basic principles and to use that knowledge to create predictive capabilities for designing and optimizing practical combustion devices.


Important outcomesfor this program include:


broad-based tools — experimental, theoretical, andcomputational — that can be applied to a variety of problems in combustionand fire systems;
science and technology for clean and efficient generation of power;
discoveries that enable clean environments (for example, by reduction in combustion-generated pollutants); and
enhanced public safety through research on fire growth, inhibition, and suppression.


Research areas of interest for this program include:


Basic combustion science: Combustion of gas, liquid, and solid fuels over abroad range of temperatures, pressures, and compositions; combustion at supercritical conditions; advanced propulsion concepts; flame synthesis ofmaterials; integration of fuel design and combustion; control of reaction pathways; development of chemical kinetics models, analytical and numerical predictive methods, and advanced diagnostic tools.
Combustionscience related to clean energy: Increasing efficiency and reducing pollution; production and use of renewable fuels; biomass pyrolysis, gasification, and oxidation; technologies such as oxy-fuel combustion and chemical looping combustion for carbon capture.
Fireprevention: Improved understanding of fires to prevent their spread, inhibit their growth, and suppress them; prediction and mitigation of fires in the wildland-urban interface.
Turbulent-chemistry interactions: Fundamental understanding of turbulent flow interactions with finite-rate chemical kinetic pathways at high Reynolds and Kapitza number conditions, including but not limited to: (1) fundamental experiments to generate physico-chemical data to reduce theuncertainty of combustion chemistry and turbulent combustion models, (2)spatially/temporally well-resolved, multi-scale/multi-physics computations;novel approaches of developing embedded multi-scale direct numericalsimulation (DNS) of complex geometries and data-assimilations forincorporating measured data from the state-of-art in situ diagnostic approaches; (3) other innovative approaches on development and validation of predictive computational methods. NOTE: this is an NSF-AFOSR (Air Force Office of Scientific Research) joint funding area. Proposals will be jointly reviewed by NSF and AFOSR using the NSF merit reviewprocess.Actual funding format and agency split for an award(depending on availabilityof funds) will be determined after the proposal selection process. The AFOSR program that participates in this initiative is the program on Energy, Combustion, and Nonequilibrium Thermodynamics.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered.However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the Principal Investigator contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field.Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research.The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged.Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate.Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission.Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
228,Catalysis,PD-20-1401,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Catalysis program is part of the Chemical Process Systems cluster, which also includes: 1) the Electrochemical Systems program; 2) the Interfacial Engineering program; and 3) the Process Systems, Reaction Engineering, and Molecular Thermodynamics program.


The goals of the Catalysis program are to increase fundamental understanding in catalytic engineering science and to advance the development of catalytic materials and reactions that are beneficial to society.  Research in this program should focus on new concepts for catalytic materials and reactions, utilizing synthetic, theoretical, and experimental approaches.  Target applications include fuels, specialty and bulk chemicals, environmental catalysis, biomass conversion to fuels and chemicals, conversion of greenhouse gases, and generation of solar hydrogen, as well as efficient routes to energy utilization.


Heterogeneous catalysis represents the main thrust of the program.  Proposals related to both gas-solid and liquid-solid heterogeneous catalysis are welcome, as are proposals that incorporate concepts from homogeneous catalysis. 


Topic areas that are of particular interest include:


·         Renewable energy-related catalysis with applications in electrocatalysis, photocatalysis, and catalytic conversion of biomass-derived chemicals. Catalysis aimed at closing the carbon cycle (especially conversion of CO2, methane, and natural gas to fuels and chemical intermediates).


·         Catalytic alternatives to traditionally non-catalytic reaction processes, as well as new catalyst designs for established catalytic processes.  


·         Environmental catalysis (including energy-efficient and green routes to fuels and chemicals).


·         Catalytic remediation of feedstocks, process streams, products, or effluents.


·         Commercially scalable methods of catalyst synthesis.


·         New catalytic materials and architectures (especially those substituting earth-abundant materials for precious and noble metal catalysts).


·         Basic understanding of catalytic materials, reaction pathways, kinetics, and surface mechanisms.


·         Durable, poison-resistant, and easily regenerable catalyst formulations and designs.


·         Advances in tools for catalyst characterization and theoretical/computational catalysis.


Proposals that deal with new catalytic materials, especially materials for photocatalysts, with their inherent complexity, will be enhanced by including plans to assess: 1) reproducibility and repeatability of data, 2) stability under realistic operating conditions including start-up and shut-down cycles, 3) performance relative to standard or well-known reference materials, and 4) quantitative, well-accepted measures of catalyst activity and catalytic efficiency, such as turnover frequencies and turnover numbers, quantum and/or photon yields of photocatalysts, and detailed product analyses and mass balances for the targeted application.


NOTE: Proposals focused on biocatalytic processes, including proposals focusing on enzyme engineering, cellular and biomolecular processes, should now be submitted to the Cellular and Biochemical Engineering program (CBET 1491).  If the proposal focuses on reaction engineering aspects of catalytic processes, submit to the Process Systems, Reaction Engineering, and Molecular Thermodynamics program (CBET 1403). Projects that are interdisciplinary in nature may be jointly funded with other CBET and NSF programs. Program directors will review the submissions and may transfer your proposal to give it the best review situation.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered.  However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/or potentially transformative nature of the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years.  Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of principal investigator time per year (awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts) link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description. 


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the rogram director before submission of the proposal.


Grants for Rapid Response Research (RAPID) and EArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER) are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


COMPLIANCE: Proposals which are not compliant with the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) will be returned without review."
229,"Process Systems, Reaction Engineering, and Molecular Thermodynamics",PD-20-1403,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Process Systems, Reaction Engineering and Molecular Thermodynamics program is part of the Chemical Process Systems cluster, which also includes: 1) the Catalysis program; 2) the Electrochemical Systems program; and 3) the Interfacial Engineering program.


The goal of the Process Systems, Reaction Engineering and Molecular Thermodynamics program is to advance fundamental engineering research on the rates and mechanisms of chemical reactions, systems engineering and molecular thermodynamics as they relate to the design and optimization of chemical reactors and the production of specialized materials that have important impacts on society.


The program supports the development of advanced optimization and control algorithms for chemical processes, molecular and multi-scale modeling of complex chemical systems, fundamental studies on molecular thermodynamics, and the integration of this information into the design of complex chemical reactors. An important area supported by the program focuses on the development of energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly chemical processes and materials.


Proposals should focus on:


· Chemical reaction engineering: This area encompasses the interaction of transport phenomena and kinetics in reactive systems and the use of this knowledge in the design of complex chemical reactors. Focus areas include novel reactor designs, such as catalytic and membrane reactors, micro-reactors, and atomic layer deposition systems; studies of reactions in supercritical fluids; novel activation techniques, such as plasmas, acoustics, and microwaves; design of multifunctional systems, such as ""chemical-factory/lab-on-a-chip"" concepts; and biomass conversion to fuels and chemicals. The program also supports new approaches that enable the design of modular chemical manufacturing systems.


· Process design, optimization and control: This area encompasses the development of algorithms for design, optimization and control of process systems and individual process units. High priority research topics include process intensification, modular process systems, smart manufacturing, real-time optimization and control of complex chemical systems integrated with sustainability, and optimization of enterprise-wide processes involved in planning, scheduling and control.


· Reactive polymer processing: Program scope in this area is limited to research that integrates synthesis and processing to engineer specific structures that tune the properties of polymers. The focus is on processes that address environmental concerns while producing tailor-made macromolecular materials.


· Molecular thermodynamics: This area focuses on fundamental research that combines principles of thermodynamics and molecular theory to improve chemical processing and synthesis of novel functional materials, such as catalysts, polymers, solvents, and colloids. Topics includes fundamental studies on self and directed assembly of complex supramolecular structures, computational screening of chemicals and/or materials for desirable properties, and development of advanced computer simulation and visualization techniques. The ultimate goal is to enable the development of more efficient chemical processes, improve environmental sustainability and water quality, and design functional materials with tailored properties.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/or potentially transformative nature of the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of principal investigator time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the Program Director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the Program Director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


COMPLIANCE: Proposals which are not compliant with theProposal and Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
230,Biophotonics,PD-20-7236,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"TheBiophotonicsprogram is part of the Engineering Biology and Health cluster, which also includes: 1) the Biosensing program; 2) the Cellular and Biochemical Engineering program; 3) the Disability and Rehabilitation Engineering program; and 4) the Engineering of Biomedical Systems program.


The goal of theBiophotonicsprogram is to explore the research frontiers in photonics principles, engineering and technology that are relevant for critical problems in fields of medicine, biology and biotechnology. Fundamental engineering research and innovation in photonics is required to lay the foundations for new technologies beyond those that are mature and ready for application in medical diagnostics and therapies. Advances are needed in nanophotonics, optogenetics, contrast and targeting agents, ultra-thin probes, wide field imaging, and rapid biomarker screening. Low cost and minimally invasive medical diagnostics and therapies are key motivating application goals.


Research topics in this program include:


Macromolecule Markers: Innovative methods for labeling of macromolecules. Novel compositions of matter. Methods of fabrication of multicolor probes that could be used for marking and detection of specific pathological cells.Pushing the envelope of optical sensing to the limits of detection, resolution, and identification.
Low Coherence Sensing at the Nanoscale: Low coherence enhanced backscattering (LEBS). N-dimensional elastic light scattering.Angle-resolved low coherence interferometry for early cancer detection (dysplasia).
Neurophotonics:Studies of photon activation of neurons at the interface of nanomaterials attached to cells. Development and application of biocompatible photonic tools such as parallel interfaces and interconnects for communicating and control of neural networks.
Microphotonics and Nanophotonics:Development and application of novel nanoparticle fluorescent quantum-dots. Sensitive, multiplexed, high-throughput characterization of macromolecular properties of cells.Nanomaterials and nanodevices for biomedicine.
Optogenetics: Novel research in employing light-activated channels and enzymes for manipulation of neural activity with temporal precision. Utilizing nanophotonics, nanofibers, and genetic techniques for mapping and studying in real-time physiological processes in organs such as the brain and heart.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
231,Cellular and Biochemical Engineering,PD-20-1491,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"TheCellular and Biochemical Engineering(CBE)program is part of theEngineering Biology and Healthcluster, which also includes: 1) the Biophotonics program; 2) the Biosensing program; 3) the Disability and Rehabilitation Engineering program; and 4) the Engineering of Biomedical Systems program.


TheCellular and Biochemical Engineering program supports fundamental engineering research that advances understanding of cellular andbiomolecular processes. CBE-funded research may lead to the development of enabling technology for advanced biomanufacturing in support of the therapeutic cell, biochemical, biopharmaceutical, and biotechnology industries.


Fundamental to many research projects in this area is the understanding of how biomolecules, subcellular systems, cells, and cell populations interact, and how those interactions lead to changes in structure, function, and behavior. A quantitative treatment of problems related to biological processes is considered vital to successful research projects in the CBE program.


The program encourages highly innovative and potentially transformative engineering research leading to novel bioprocessing and biomanufacturing approaches. The CBE program also encourages proposals that effectively integrate knowledge and practices from different disciplines while incorporating ongoing research into educational activities.


Major areas of interest for the program include:


Metabolic engineering and synthetic biology for biomanufacturing, including the design of synthetic metabolic components and synthetic cells,
Quantitative systems biotechnology,
Microbiome structure, function, synthesis, and maintenance,
Protein and enzyme engineering, and
Single cell and population dynamics and modeling in the context of biomanufacturing.


All proposals should include a description on the potential impact of proposed research on an associated biomanufacturing process.


Proposals whose core innovation involves tissue engineering, organ culture, development of models of healthy or diseased physiology, or design and application of technologies focused on the diagnosis or treatment of disease should be submitted to theEngineering ofBiomedicalSystemsprogram (CBET 5345).


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact of success in the research on society and/or industry. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of principal investigator time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the Program Director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the Program Director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
232,Environmental Sustainability,PD-20-7643,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Environmental Sustainability program is part of the Environmental Engineering and Sustainability cluster together with 1) theEnvironmental Engineering program and 2) the Nanoscale Interactions program.


The goal of the Environmental Sustainability program is to promote sustainable engineered systems that support human well-being and that are also compatible with sustaining natural (environmental) systems. These systems provide ecological services vital for human survival. Research efforts supported by the program typically consider long time horizons and may incorporate contributions from the social sciences and ethics. The program supports engineering research that seeks to balance society's need to provide ecological protection and maintain stable economic conditions.


There are four principal general research areas that are supported:


Industrial ecology: Topics of interest include advancements in modeling such as life cycle assessment, materials flow analysis, input/output economic models, and novel metrics for measuring sustainable systems. Innovations in industrial ecology are encouraged.
Green engineering: Research is encouraged to advance the sustainability of manufacturing processes, green buildings, and infrastructure. Many programs in the Engineering Directorate support research in environmentally benign manufacturing or chemical processes. The Environmental Sustainability program supports research that would affect more than one chemical or manufacturing process or that takes a systems or holistic approach to green engineering for infrastructure or green buildings. Improvements in distribution and collection systems that will advance smart growth strategies and ameliorate effects of growth are research areas that are supported by Environmental Sustainability. Innovations in management of storm water, recycling and reuse of drinking water, and other green engineering techniques to support sustainability may also be fruitful areas for research.
Ecological engineering: Proposals should focus on the engineering aspects of restoring ecological function to natural systems. Engineering research in the enhancement of natural capital to foster sustainable development is encouraged.
Earth systems engineering: Earth systems engineering considers aspects of large-scale engineering research that involve mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions, adaptation to climate change, and other global concerns.


All proposed research should be driven by engineering principles, and be presented explicitly in an environmental sustainability context. Proposals should include involvement in engineering research of at least one graduate student, as well as undergraduates. Incorporation of aspects of social, behavioral, and economic sciences is welcomed.


NOTE: Water treatment, air pollution (both outdoor and indoor), soil remediation, and solid waste treatment proposals are to besubmitted to the Environmental Engineering program (CBET 1440).


Innovative proposals outside the scope of the four core areas mentioned above may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review. For proposals that call for research to be done outside of the United States, an explanation must be presented of the potential benefit of the research for the United States.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate.Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission.Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
233,Thermal Transport Processes,PD-20-1406,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Thermal Transport Processes program is part of the Transport Phenomena cluster, which alsoincludes1) theCombustion and Fire Systems program; 2) the Fluid Dynamics program; and 3) the Particulate and Multiphase Processes program.


The Thermal Transport Processesprogram supports engineering research projects that lay the foundation for newadvances in thermal transport phenomena. These projects should either develop new fundamental knowledge or combine existing knowledge in thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat and mass transfer to probe new areas of innovation in thermal transport processes. The program seeks transformative projects with the potential for improvingbasic understanding, predictability and application of thermal transport processes. Projects should articulate the contribution(s) to the fundamental knowledge supporting thermal transport processes and state clearly the potential application(s) impact when appropriate.Projects that combine analytical, experimental and numerical efforts, geared toward understanding, modeling and predicting thermal phenomena, are of great interest.Collaborative and interdisciplinary proposals for which the main contribution is in thermal transport processes fundamentals are also encouraged. Emphasis is placed on research that demonstrates how thermal transport phenomena affect the existence, behavior and dynamics of components and systems.Priority is given to insightful investigations of fundamental problems with clearly defined economic, environmental and societal impacts.


Some specific areas of interest include:


Convection/diffusion/radiation: Heat and mass transport incomplex structures and surfaces;thermal-related turbulence; development of form-functionrelationships in thermal processes; thermal design methodology; phonon transport and interactions between energy carriers; radiationamplification, controlling, and extinction; interfacial gas-solid andliquid-solid thermal and species-driven phenomena.
Thermodynamics: Thermal-electric energy conversion; battery-related thermal issues; power generation and propulsion; phase-change and supercritical energy cycles;non-equilibriumthermal processes.
Biologicalheatand mass transport: Biomimicry;intra- andextra-cellular heat and mass transport; freeze resistancemechanisms;thermotherapy and thermoregulation; organ conservation(freezing and thawing); mass transport in biomedical and health systems.
Nanothermics,microthermics,and mesothermics: Scaling upnanoscale heat transport processes or coupledheat-mass transport processes; utilization ofnew multi-functional, meta- and graded-materials in thermal transport;nano-texturingand phase-change; multi-scale thermal transport in aprocess.
New metrology and artificial intelligence (AI)/machinelearning methodologies in thermal sciences: Advanced thermal imagingand measurement techniques for high-resolution; in situ thermal imaging and non-invasive temperature measurement; novel AI/machine learning methodologies and other data-intensive approaches that can be coupled with physics-based models and/or experiments to enable new understanding and discoveries in thermal transport processes.


NOTE: Proposalsincluding chemical kinetics should be submitted to the ENG/CBET Combustion and FireSystems program. Proposals dealing mainly with materials synthesis, processing and characterization should be directed to the ENG/CMMIAdvanced Manufacturingprogram or the Division of Materials Research (DMR) in the Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences (MPS). Proposals at the interface of computational/mathematical sciences and thermal transport are encouraged but should be submitted to theComputational and Data-Enabled Science & Engineering (CDS&E) program.

Proposals seeking the utilization of the International Space Station U.S. National Laboratory should follow the instructions in the NSF/CASIS solicitations (e.g., NSF 20-501). Proposals related to the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) general area of non-equilibrium multiphase flows with chemical reactions should be submitted as regular proposals to the Thermal Transport Processes program. Proposals related to the Department of Energy (DOE) general area of thermal and thermochemical energy storage materials and processes should be submitted as regular proposals to the Thermal Transport Processes program. In these cases, the PI should contact the program director to confirm suitability of the topic prior to submitting the proposal.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered.However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field.Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research.The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the ?What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)? link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged.Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate.Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission.Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
234,Fluid Dynamics,PD-20-1443,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Fluid Dynamics program is part of the Transport Phenomena cluster, which also includes 1) the Combustion and Fire Systems program; 2) the Particulate and Multiphase Processes program; and 3) the Thermal Transport Processes program.


The Fluid Dynamics program supports fundamental research toward gaining an understanding of the physics of various fluid dynamics phenomena. Proposed research should contribute to basic scientific understanding via experiments, theoretical developments, and computational discovery.


Major areas of interest and activity in the program include:


Turbulence and transition: High Reynolds number experiments; large eddy simulation; direct numerical simulation; transition to turbulence; 3-D boundary layers; separated flows; multi-phase turbulent flows; flow control and drag reduction. A new area of emphasis is high speed boundary layer transition and turbulence; the focus would be for flows at Mach numbers greater than 5 to understand cross-mode interactions leading to boundary layer transition and the ensuing developing and fully developed turbulent boundary layer flows.Combined experiments and simulations are encouraged.
Bio-fluid physics:Bio-inspired flows; biological flows with emphasis on flow physics.
Non-Newtonian fluid mechanics: Viscoelastic flows; solutions of macro-molecules.
Microfluidics and nanofluidics: Micro-and nano-scale flow physics.
Wind and ocean energy harvesting: Focused on fundamental fluid dynamics associated with renewal energy.
Fluid-structure interactions: This is an NSF-AFOSR (Air Force Office of Scientific Research) joint funding area focused on theory, modeling and/or experiments for hypersonics applications. Proposals will be jointly reviewed by NSF and AFOSR using the NSF panel format, and a small number of awards (depending on availability of funds and proposal quality) will be provided. Actual funding format and agency split for an award will be determined after the proposal selection process. AFOSR participates in this initiative throughtheHigh-Speed Aerodynamics program(program officer: Dr. Ivett Leyva).
Canonicalconfigurations:Experimental research is encouraged to develop spatiotemporally resolveddatabases for canonical configurations to either confirm historicalresults or to provide data in an unexplored parameter region. Fidelity and completeness for computational validation is a key attribute of theproposed experimental data.
Artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning:Innovative ideas related to the use of machine learning in fluid dynamics research.Verifying new models with canonical configurations, when appropriate, is encouraged. Such proposals may be appropriate for Computational andData-Enabled Science & Engineering (CDS&E) program as well.


NOTE:Proposals focused on particulates (including droplets) two-way coupled with fluids, colloids, and multiphase rheology and processes should be directed to theParticulate and Multiphase Processes program (CBET 1514). Proposals dealing mainly with materials synthesis, processing and characterization may be more suitable for the Advanced Manufacturing programin the Division of Civil, Mechanical, and Manufacturing Innovation orprograms in theDivision of Materials Research. Proposals focused on biological systems may be more suitable for Physiological and Structural Systems in the Division of Integrative Organismal Systems. Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered; however, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field.Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research.The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the ?What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)? link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged.Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate.Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission.Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposalsthat are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
235,Electrochemical Systems,PD-20-7644,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"SYNOPSIS


TheElectrochemical Systemsprogram is part of the Chemical Process Systems cluster, which also includes: 1) theCatalysisprogram; 2) theInterfacial Engineeringprogram; and 3) theProcess Systems, Reaction Engineering, and Molecular Thermodynamicsprogram.


The goal of theElectrochemical Systemsprogram is to support fundamental engineering research that will enable innovative processes involving electro- or photochemistry for the sustainable production of electricity, fuels, and chemicals. Processes for sustainable energy and chemical production must be scalable, environmentally benign, reduce greenhouse gas production, and utilize renewable resources. Research projects that stress fundamental understanding of phenomena that directly impact key barriers to improved system or component-level performance (for example, energy efficiency, product yield, process intensification) are encouraged. Processes for energy storage should address fundamental research barriers for the applications of renewable electricity storage or for transport propulsion. For projects concerning energy storage materials, proposals should involve hypotheses that involve device or component performance characteristics that are tied to fundamental understanding of transport, kinetics, or thermodynamics. Advanced chemistries are encouraged.


Proposed research should be inspired by the need for economic and impactful conversion processes. All proposal project descriptions should address how the proposed work, if successful, will improve process realization and economic feasibility and compare the proposed work against current state of the art. Highly integrated multidisciplinary projects are encouraged.


Topics of interest include electrochemical energy storage and electrochemical production systems.


Radically new battery systems can move the U.S. more rapidly toward a more sustainable transportation future. High-energy density and high-power density batteries suitable for transportation and renewable energy storage applications are of primary interest. Advanced systems such as lithium-air, sodium-ion, multivalent chemistries, and lithium-ion electrochemical energy storage are appropriate. Research activities focused on commercially available systems such as lead-acid and nickel-metal hydride batteries will not be considered by this program. Novel electrochemical systems for the production of chemicals and high valued products are encouraged. Emphasis is placed on those systems that improve process intensification and process modularization with accompanying benefits in energy efficiency and environmental footprint.


Additional fundamental science topics of interest to this program include the study of:


advanced fuel cell systems or fuel cell components for transportation propulsion or grid energy storage applications;
flow batteries for energy storage applications; and
photocatalytic or photoelectrochemical processes and devices for the splitting of water into H2 gas or for the reduction of CO2 to liquid or gaseous fuels; projects that largely focus on developing fundamental understanding of the catalytic reaction mechanisms and structure-function relationships may be more appropriate as submissions to the CBET Catalysis program (CBET 1401);





Projects submitted to the Electrochemical Systems program are expected to develop fundamental, molecular-level understanding of the key chemical reaction and transport phenomena barriers to improved system level performance. Innovative proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the Primary Investigator contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.


Referrals to other programs within NSF:


Proposals that focus on electric-field driven separations such as dielectrophoresis should be directed to theInterfacial Engineeringprogram (CBET 1417).
Proposals that focus on thermal management of energy storage devices and systems should be submitted to theThermal Transport Processesprogram (CBET 1406).
Proposals that focus on improving device and system performance of primarily organic, inorganic, and hybrid photovoltaic (PV) technologies, including perovskites, may be more appropriate as submissions to the Electronics, Photonics, and Magnetic Devices program in Engineering's Division of Electrical, Communications, and Cyber Systems (ECCS 1517). PV materials proposals that focus on the material science may be considered in the Division of Materials Research of the Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences.
Proposals that focus on the generation of thermal energy by solar radiation should be directed to theThermal Transport Processesprogram (CBET 1406).


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact on society and/or industry of success in the research. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of principal investigator time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the Program Director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years.The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in theCAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the Program Director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission.Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


COMPLIANCE: Proposals which are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
236,Disability and Rehabilitation Engineering,PD-20-5342,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"TheDisability and Rehabilitation Engineeringprogram is part of the Engineering Biology and Health cluster, which also includes: 1) the Biophotonics program; 2) the Biosensing program; 3) the Cellular and Biochemical Engineering program; and 4) the Engineering of Biomedical Systems program.
TheDisability andRehabilitation Engineeringprogram supports fundamental engineering research that will improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities through: the development of new technologies, devices, or software combined with advancement of knowledge regarding healthy or pathological human motion, or advancement in understanding of injury mechanisms.
Research may be supported that is directed toward the characterization, restoration, rehabilitation, and/or substitution of human functional ability or cognition, or to the interaction between persons with disabilities and their environment. Areas of particular interest are neuroengineering and rehabilitation robotics. The program will also consider research in the areas of: new engineering approaches to understand healthy or pathological motion, both as a target for rehabilitation and as a means to characterize motion related to disability or injury; understanding injury at the tissue- or system-level such that interventions may be developed to reduce the impact of trauma and subsequent disability; or understanding the role of gut microbiota in modulating disability in the context of rehabilitation.
Emphasis is placed on significant advancement of fundamental engineering knowledge that facilitates transformative outcomes. We encourage high-risk high-reward proposals that surpass incremental technological improvements.
Innovative proposals outside of the above specific interest areas may be considered. However, prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the Program Director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review.
NSF does not support clinical trials; however, feasibility studies involving human volunteers may be supported if appropriate to the project objectives. Furthermore, the DARE program does not support proposals having as their central theme commercialization of a product. Small businesses seeking early stage R&D funding for product development are encouraged to contact the NSF SBIR/STTR program in the Division of Industrial Innovation and Partnerships (IIP). 


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact of success in the research on society and/or industry. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of principal investigator time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the Program Director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
237,Engineering of Biomedical Systems,PD-20-5345,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"TheEngineering of Biomedical Systems program is part of the Engineering Biology and Health cluster, which also includes: 1) the Biophotonics program; 2) the Biosensing program; 3) the Cellular and Biochemical Engineering program; and 4) the Disability and Rehabilitation Engineering program.


The goal of theEngineering of Biomedical Systems (EBMS) program is to provide opportunities for creating fundamental and transformative research projects that integrate engineering and life sciences to solve biomedical problems and serve humanity in the long term. Projects are expected to use an engineering framework (for example, design or modeling) that supports increased understanding of physiological or pathophysiological processes. Projects must include objectives that advance both engineering and biomedical sciences.


Projects may include: methods, models, and enabling tools applied to understand or control living systems; fundamental improvements in deriving information from cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems; or new approaches to the design of systems that include both living and non-living components for eventual medical use in the long term.


TheEBMS programsupports fundamental and transformative research in the following areas of biomedical engineering:


Developmentof validated models (living or computational) of healthy and pathological tissues and organ systems that can support improved fundamental understanding of these systems or development and testing of medical interventions;
Designand validation of systems that integrate living and non-living componentsfor improved understanding, diagnosis, monitoring, and treatment ofdisease or injury;
Advancedbiomanufacturing of three-dimensional tissues and organs;
Design and subsequent application of technologies andtools, including those that leverage an organism’s microbiome, toinvestigate fundamental physiological and pathophysiological processes;and
Application of engineering tools and principles, including mathematical modeling, to quantitatively study the immune system in health and disease and to develop techniques for controlling and modulating a host’s immune response to challenges such as infectious diseases, cancer, implants, autoimmune disorders, wounds, etc.


Innovative proposals outside of these specific areas of biomedical engineering may be considered.However, prior to submission, it is strongly recommended that the PIs contact the program director to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review. Related programs also fund biomedical engineering research, and PIs are encouraged to examine these to find the appropriate program for submission.


The long-term impact of the projects can be related to fundamental understanding of cell and tissue function in normal and pathological conditions, effective disease diagnosis and/or treatment, or improved health care delivery.


The EBMS program does not support proposals having as their central theme drug design and delivery, the development of biomedical devices that do not include a living biological component, or thedevelopment of animal models of disease.For consideration by the EBMS program, proposals that advance the design of tools or technologies should also apply those technologies to advance knowledge in biomedical science.NSF does not support clinical trials; however, feasibility studies involving human volunteers may be supported if appropriate to the project objectives.


Furthermore, although research on biomaterials, cellular biomechanics, or manufacturing systems may constitute a part of the proposed studies, such research cannot be the central theme or key focus area of the proposed work.Biomaterials-focused projects should consider the Biomaterials (BMAT) program in the Division of Materials Research (DMR), while cellular biomechanics projects should consider the Biomechanics and Mechanobiology (BMMB) program and manufacturing systems proposals should consider the Advanced Manufacturing(AM) program, both in the Division of Civil, Mechanical, and Manufacturing Innovation (CMMI).


INFORMATION COMMON TO MOST CBET PROGRAMS


Proposals should address the novelty and/orpotentially transformative natureof the proposed work compared to previous work in the field. Also, it is important to address why the proposed work is important in terms of engineering science, as well as to also project the potential impact of success in the research on society and/or industry. The novelty or potentially transformative nature of the research should be included, as a minimum, in the Project Summary of each proposal.


The duration of unsolicited proposal awards in CBET is generally up to three years. Single-investigator award budgets typically include support for one graduate student (or equivalent) and up to one month of PI time per year(awards for multiple investigator projects are typically larger). Proposal budgets that are much larger than typical should be discussed with the program director prior to submission. Proposers can view budget amounts and other information from recent awards made by this program via the “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts)” link towards the bottom of this page.


Faculty Early Career Development(CAREER)program proposals are strongly encouraged. Award duration is five years. The submission deadline for Engineering CAREER proposals is in July every year. Learn more in the CAREER program description.


Proposals for Conferences, Workshops, and Supplements: PIs are strongly encouraged to discuss their requests with the program director before submission of the proposal.


Grants forRapid Response Research(RAPID)andEArly-concept Grants for Exploratory Research(EAGER)are also considered when appropriate. Please note that proposals of these types must be discussed with the program director before submission. Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)proposals that integrate fundamental research with translational results and are consistent with the application areas of interest to each program are also encouraged. Please note that RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI proposals can be submitted anytime during the year. Details about RAPID, EAGER, and GOALI are available in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide(PAPPG), Part 1, Chapter II, Section E: Types of Proposals.


Compliance: Proposals that are not compliant with theProposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)will be returned without review."
238,Stimulating Access to Research in Residency Transition Scholar (StARRTS) (K38) (Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-HL-20-006,"City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this program is to provide continued support to Transition Scholars who have successfully matriculated through the NIH Stimulating Access to Research in Residency (StARR) R38 program as resident investigators, and who demonstrate potential and continued interest in pursuing careers as clinician-investigators. Awards will provide 12-24 months of mentored research and career development support to those individuals who completed R38 research training, have secured a clinical fellowship or early-career faculty appointment (as instructor or assistant professor for less than 40 months at the time of submission or resubmission), and propose a strong research and career development plan towards continued, successful research careers."
239,Accelerating the Pace of Drug Abuse Research Using Existing Data (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-368,"For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite applications proposing the innovative analysis of existing social science, behavioral, administrative, and neuroimaging data to study the etiology and epidemiology of drug using behaviors (defined as alcohol, tobacco, prescription and other drug) and related disorders, prevention of drug use and HIV, and health service utilization. This FOA encourages the analyses of public use and other extant community-based or clinical datasets to their full potential in order to increase our knowledge of etiology, trajectories of drug using behaviors and their consequences including morbidity and mortality, risk and resilience in the development of psychopathology, strategies to guide the development, testing, implementation, and delivery of high quality, effective and efficient services for the prevention and treatment of drug abuse and HIV."
240,Revision Applications for Mechanisms of Drug Resistance (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),RFA-CA-19-049,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is associated with the Beau Biden Cancer MoonshotSM Initiative that is intended to accelerate cancer research. The purpose of this FOA is to support the addition of new aims and directions to ongoing NCI-funded R01 Research Project Grants that will inform on underlying mechanisms of resistance, preclinical design and foster development of single or combination therapies to effectively target resistant/refractory tumors and/or their microenvironment at the clinical level."
241,Revision Applications for Mechanisms of Drug Resistance (P50 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),RFA-CA-19-053,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is associated with the Beau Biden Cancer MoonshotSM Initiative that is intended to accelerate cancer research. The purpose of this FOA is to support the addition of new aims and directions to currently funded NCI P50 Specialized Research Center grants that will inform on underlying mechanisms of resistance, preclinical design and foster development of single or combination therapies to effectively target resistant/refractory tumors and/or their microenvironment at the clinical level"
242,Revision Applications for Mechanisms of Drug Resistance (P01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),RFA-CA-19-052,"Special district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is associated with the Beau Biden Cancer MoonshotSM Initiative that is intended to accelerate cancer research. The purpose of this FOA is to support the addition of new aims and directions to currently funded NCI Research Program Projects that will inform on underlying mechanisms of resistance, preclinical design and foster development of single or combination therapies to effectively target resistant/refractory tumors and/or their microenvironment at the clinical level."
243,Integration of Imaging and Fluid-Based Tumor Monitoring in Cancer Therapy (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-363,"Small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Through this funding opportunity announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) seeks research project (R01) grant applications describing projects that integrate imaging and fluid-based tumor monitoring (liquid biopsy) assays during cancer therapy in patients to determine the optimal use of those modalities in the characterization of therapy response and/or emergence of resistance."
244,Accountable Institutions and Behavior,PD-19-120Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Accountable Institutions and Behavior (AIB) Program supports basicscientific research that advances knowledge and understanding of issues broadly related to attitudes, behavior, and institutions connected to public policy and the provision of public services.Research proposals are expected to be theoretically motivated, conceptually precise, methodologically rigorous, and empirically oriented. Substantive areas include (but are not limited to) the study of individual and group decision-making, political institutions (appointed or elected), attitude and preference formation and expression, electoral processes and voting, public administration, and public policy. This work can focus on a single case or can be done in a comparative context, either over time or cross-sectionally.The Program does not fund applied research.The Program also supports research experiences for undergraduate students and infrastructural activities, including methodological innovations.In addition, we encourage you to examine the websites for the National Science Foundation’s Law and Science(LS) and Security and Preparedness (SAP) programs."
245,Security and Preparedness,PD-19-118Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Security and Preparedness (SAP) Programsupports basic scientific research that advances knowledge and understanding of issues broadly related to global and national security. Research proposals are evaluated on the criteria of intellectual merit and broader impacts; the proposed projects are expected to be theoretically motivated, conceptually precise, methodologically rigorous, and empirically oriented. Substantive areas include (but are not limited to) international relations, global and national security, human security,political violence, state stability, conflict processes, regime transition, international and comparative political economy, and peace science. Moreover, the Program supports research experiences for undergraduate students and infrastructural activities, including methodological innovations. The Program does not fund applied research. In addition, we encourage you to examine the websites for the National Science Foundation'sAccountable Institutions and Behavior(AIB) and Law and Science (LS) programs.

"
246,Intervening with Cancer Caregivers to Improve Patient Health Outcomes and Optimize Health Care Utilization (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-352,"Special district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for intervention research designed to support caregivers of adult cancer patients. Interventions supported by this FOA are intended to provide caregivers with care training, promote coping skills, and ultimately help them manage care. Outcomes of such interventions are expected to (1) optimize patient health care utilization, (2) improve caregiver well-being, and (3) improve patient physical health and psychosocial outcomes."
247,Intervening with Cancer Caregivers to Improve Patient Health Outcomes and Optimize Health Care Utilization (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-355,"Small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for intervention research designed to support caregivers of adult cancer patients. Interventions supported by this FOA are intended to provide caregivers with care training, promote coping skills, and ultimately help them manage care. Outcomes of such interventions are expected to (1) optimize patient health care utilization, (2) improve caregiver well-being, and (3) improve patient physical health and psychosocial outcomes."
248,Linking the Provider Recommendation to Adolescent HPV Vaccine Uptake  (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-360,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages research on how the healthcare delivery system enhances or inhibits the effectiveness of a provider's recommendation of the adolescent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. Characteristics of the provider, parent/patient, and clinical setting, can all affect whether a provider makes a recommendation, and whether that recommendation results in uptake of the HPV vaccine. This research requires expertise in cancer prevention, adult and childhood behavior, immunization promotion, and healthcare delivery."
249,Linking the Provider Recommendation to Adolescent HPV Vaccine Uptake  (R03 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-359,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages research on how the healthcare delivery system enhances or inhibits the effectiveness of a provider's recommendation of the adolescent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. Characteristics of the provider, parent/patient, and clinical setting, can all affect whether a provider makes a recommendation, and whether that recommendation results in uptake of the HPV vaccine. This research requires expertise in cancer prevention, adult and childhood behavior, immunization promotion, and healthcare delivery."
250,Linking the Provider Recommendation to Adolescent HPV Vaccine Uptake  (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-358,"City or township governmentsState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages research on how the healthcare delivery system enhances or inhibits the effectiveness of a provider's recommendation of the adolescent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. Characteristics of the provider, parent/patient, and clinical setting, can all affect whether a provider makes a recommendation, and whether that recommendation results in uptake of the HPV vaccine. This research requires expertise in cancer prevention, adult and childhood behavior, immunization promotion, and healthcare delivery."
251,Neural Regulation of Cancer (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-354,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages collaborative, transdisciplinary research with both neuroscience and cancer elements, which together will advance current understanding of the nervous system contribution to cancer.  Leveraging the knowledge, tools, experimental models and reagents in neuroscience research to uncover novel mechanisms used by the nervous system to promote tumor initiation, progression and metastasis can ultimately inform key areas of cancer research including the prevention and treatment of non-central nervous system tumors."
252,Neural Regulation of Cancer (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-353,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages collaborative, transdisciplinary research with both neuroscience and cancer elements, which together will advance current understanding of the nervous system contribution to cancer.  Leveraging the knowledge, tools, experimental models and reagents in neuroscience research to uncover novel mechanisms used by the nervous system to promote tumor initiation, progression and metastasis can ultimately inform key areas of cancer research including the prevention and treatment of non-central nervous system tumors."
253,Research in the Formation of Engineers,PD-19-1340,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The NSF Engineering (ENG) Directorate has launched a multi-year initiative, the Professional Formation of Engineers, to create and support an innovative and inclusive engineering profession for the 21st century. Professional Formation of Engineers (PFE) refers to the formal and informal processes and value systems by which people become engineers. It also includes the ethical responsibility of practicing engineers to sustain and grow the profession in order to improve quality of life for all peoples. The engineering profession must be responsive to national priorities, grand challenges, and dynamic workforce needs; it must be equally open and accessible to all.


Professional Formation of Engineers includes, but is not limited, to:


Introductions to the profession at any age;
Development of deep technical and professional skills, knowledge, and abilities in both formal and informal settings/domains;
Development of outlooks, perspectives, ways of thinking, knowing, and doing;
Development of identity as an engineer and its intersection with other identities; and
Acculturation to the profession, its standards, and norms.


The goal of the Research in the Formation of Engineers (RFE) program is to advance our understanding of professional formation. It seeks both to deepen our fundamental understanding of the underlying processes and mechanisms that support professional formation and to demonstrate how professional formation is or can be accomplished. Ultimately RFE aims to transform the engineer-formation system, and thus the impact of proposed projects on this system must be described. Principal Investigators (PIs) should provide a roadmap detailing how they envision the proposed research will eventually broadly impact practice within the engineer-formation system, even if these activities are not within the scope of the submitted proposal.


In order to accomplish its goals, RFE welcomes proposals in two categories: Research Projects, and Design and Development Projects. Research Projects address fundamental questions of professional formation, while Design and Development Projects provide new approaches to achieving professional formation. Additional details are provided below. Projects in both categories should address the iterative cycle in which research questions that advance understanding are informed by practice and the results of research are, in turn, translated into practice. In other words, proposals should explain how the research results will travel, translate, transfer, or scale. Successful projects identify specific target audiences, effective communication channels, and novel partnerships to ensure effective propagation and scaling.


Research Projects


Research proposals are particularly welcome in the following areas:


Research that addresses lifelong learning by the engineering workforce.
Research on the impact of engineering education research. Proposals addressing this topic could investigate questions such as: How can we measure the impacts of engineering education research? What are effective strategies for scaling reforms? How can we translate knowledge from research to practice? What are the roles of technologies, networks and communities in achieving impact? RFE does not support efficacy, effectiveness, or scale-up studies for specific interventions.
Research that addresses culture change in engineering education. Included in this topic are investigations of normative cultures of engineering at any level in the engineering education ecosystem and how these cultures may disadvantage certain groups.
Research that addresses engineering formation at the two-year college and graduate education levels in both formal and informal settings.
Research that investigates engineering in P–12 settings. Research in this area could include understanding of approaches to engineering in P–12, how to develop engineering ways of thinking, or the relationship between practices within the sciences and mathematics and engineering thinking.
Research on the transitions between education levels, e.g., from high school to two-year college, high school to four-year college/university, two-year college to four-year college/university, undergraduate to graduate school, education settings to the workforce or professoriate, etc.
Research that addresses the relationship between engineering and the public. Proposals addressing this topic could consider the social impact of engineering solutions, citizen engineering, education of an informed public, etc.
Research that develops or adapts novel methodologies and frameworks appropriate for studying the professional formation of engineers, and especially minoritized, marginalized, or underserved populations.
Research that addresses ways in which new technologies (such as artificial intelligence and machine learning) are changing engineering education.


Proposals submitted to the Research Projects category should have clear research questions informed by an appropriate theoretical framework and a research design that includes sampling, data collection, and data analysis methods. This category will not support proposals that seek funding primarily to develop tools, curriculum, or laboratories, or that seek to implement classroom innovations that have already been shown to be effective in engineering. The program will evaluate the value of proposals by considering the impact and the cost. Research track projects that are small, exploratory, or speculative are especially encouraged. Larger Research track projects should have a correspondingly larger impact.


Design and Development Projects


RFE supports Design and Development projects (see https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=nsf13126) that seek to develop and test new approaches in the following areas:


Graduate education.
Transitions between education levels, e.g. high school to two year college, high school to 4 year college/university, two year college to 4 year college/university, undergraduate to graduate school, education settings to the workforce or professoriate, etc.
K12, especially approaches to develop engineering thinking, or providing links between engineering, science, and mathematics


Proposals in this category should propose the design and development of new approaches that are informed by existing literature and theory. There should be clear objectives and the evaluation plan should be designed to determine if those objectives have been met. Projects cannot be solely demonstration projects, but must add to the engineering education literature to inform future work.


 


Proposal Elements


Common elements of proposals for both categories are:


The title must begin with either “Research:” or “Design and Development:” depending on which category the proposal is intended for
All proposals must have an evaluation plan. Evaluation refers to monitoring of the research process to ensure that the project stays on track. The evaluation plan should include both formative and summative evaluation. An evaluator external to the organization(s) of the investigator(s) is not required, but the evaluator should not be an individual who is involved in the research activities. Potential evaluators include faculty with evaluation expertise at the investigators’ institution(s), an institutional evaluation office, or an advisory board of experts.
All proposals must have a dissemination plan that goes beyond publishing research papers and presenting at research conferences. PIs should think creatively about who needs to hear about the research for it to have an impact, and develop a strategy to reach that audience.
The Project Summary must contain a list of three to five keywords taken from the Engineering Education Taxonomy at http://taxonomy.engin.umich.edu/taxonomy/. At least one of the keywords must be from Section 12, Research Approaches. Keywords may be selected from any level of the taxonomy as appropriate to your project. Place the keywords on a separate line at the end of the Overview section of the Project Summary.


 "
254,NSF/DOE Partnership in Basic Plasma Science and Engineering,19-596,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Plasma Physics is a study of matter and physical systems whose intrinsic properties are governed by collective interactions of large ensembles of free charged particles. 99.9% of the visible Universe is thought to consist of plasmas. The underlying physics of the collective behavior in plasmas has applications to space physics and astrophysics, materials science, applied mathematics, fusion science, accelerator science, and many branches of engineering.


The National Science Foundation (NSF), with participation of the Directorates for Engineering, Geosciences, and Mathematical and Physical Sciences, and the Department of Energy, Office of Science, Fusion Energy Sciences are continuing the joint Partnership in Basic Plasma Science and Engineering begun in FY1997 and renewed several times since. As stated in the original solicitation (NSF 97-39), which is superseded by the present solicitation, the goal of the Partnership is to enhance basic plasma science research and education in this broad, multidisciplinary field by coordinating efforts and combining resources of the two agencies. The current solicitation also encourages submission of proposals to perform basic plasma experiments at NSF and/or DOE supported user facilities, including facilities located at DOE national laboratories, designed to serve the needs of the broader plasma science and engineering community."
255,Innovative Approaches to Studying Cancer Communication in the New Information Ecosystem (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-348,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) announces its interest in supporting meritorious research projects in three distinct domains related to cancer communication: 1) the utility and application of new cancer communication surveillance approaches; 2) the development and testing of rapid cancer communication interventions using innovative methods and designs; and 3) the development and testing of multilevel cancer communication models emphasizing bidirectional influence between levels. For such projects, applicants should apply communication science approaches to the investigation of behavioral targets and health outcomes related to cancer prevention and control. Applications should utilize one or more innovative communication research methodologies."
256,Innovative Approaches to Studying Cancer Communication in the New Information Ecosystem (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-350,"For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) announces its interest in supporting meritorious research projects in three distinct domains related to cancer communication: 1) the utility and application of new cancer communication surveillance approaches; 2) the development and testing of rapid cancer communication pilot interventions using innovative methods and designs; and 3) the development and testing of multilevel cancer communication models emphasizing bidirectional influence between levels. For such projects, applicants should apply communication science approaches to the investigation of behavioral targets and health outcomes related to cancer prevention and control. Applications should utilize one or more innovative communication research methodologies."
257,NIDA Program Project Grant Applications (P01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-345,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) announces the availability of support for collaborative research by multi-disciplinary teams which is of high priority to NIDA and leads to synergistic outcomes based on the synthesis of multiple research approaches. The NIDA Program Projects funding opportunity will support research in which the funding of three or more highly meritorious projects as a group enriches both the component projects and the overall program to offer significant scientific advantages over supporting the same projects as individual research grants (i.e., synergy). For the duration of the award, each Program must consist of a minimum of three research projects focused on issues critical to advance the mission and goals of NIDA."
258,Leveraging Cognitive Neuroscience to Improve Assessment of Cancer Treatment-Related Cognitive Impairment (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-339,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,This FOA encourages the integration of cognitive neuroscience approaches to improve traditional assessment of acute and chronic cognitive changes following cancer treatment for non-central nervous system malignancies.
259,Leveraging Cognitive Neuroscience to Improve Assessment of Cancer Treatment-Related Cognitive Impairment (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-340,"State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,This FOA encourages the integration of cognitive neuroscience approaches to improve traditional assessment of acute and chronic cognitive changes following cancer treatment for non-central nervous system malignancies.
260,Mechanism for Time-Sensitive Research Opportunities in Environmental Health Sciences (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-ES-19-011,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is intended to support novel environmental health research in which an unpredictable event or policy change provides a limited window of opportunity to collect human biological samples or environmental exposure data. The primary motivation of the FOA is to understand the consequences of natural and human-made disasters, emerging environmental public health threats, and policy changes in the U.S. and abroad. A distinguishing feature of an appropriate study is the need for rapid review and funding, substantially shorter than the typical NIH grant review/award cycle, for the research question to be addressed and swiftly implemented."
261,Palliative Care in Home and Community Settings (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-321,"County governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity is to stimulate research aimed at determining needs and best practices for the integration of palliative care into home and community settings. Home and community in this FOA refer to the place where an individual resides or lives. Home- and community-based palliative care programs ensure those with serious, advanced illness who do not require hospitalization but are not appropriate for hospice have access to high quality end-of-life and palliative care."
262,Palliative Care in Home and Community Settings (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-320,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity is to stimulate research aimed at determining needs and best practices for the integration of palliative care into home and community settings. Home and community in this FOA refer to the place where an individual resides or lives. Home- and community-based palliative care programs ensure those with serious, advanced illness who do not require hospitalization but are not appropriate for hospice have access to high quality end-of-life and palliative care."
263,"Reducing Stigma to Improve HIV/AIDS Prevention, Treatment and Care in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-19-326,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Reducing Stigma to Improve HIV/AIDS Prevention, Treatment and Care in Low- and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) seeks to stimulate new and impactful research towards the development of stigma reduction interventions leading to better outcomes for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and on the quality of life of People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH) in LMICs."
264,Strategic Alliances for Medications Development to Treat Substance Use Disorders (R01-Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-318,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsState governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support research that advances compounds towards FDA approval by leveraging NIDA funds with the strengths and resources of outside organizations, such as for-profit and not-for-profit entities, including academic institutions, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, private and public foundations, and small businesses.  Applications from single entities that possess considerable resources for medications development will also be considered, provided the entity demonstrates a significant resource commitment to the proposed project. A resource commitment from a single entity could, for example, consist of salary support for key personnel or production and formulation of clinical trial material. It is anticipated that in comparison with traditional grant-funded research, strategic alliances will increase the pace at which medications to treat Substance Use Disorders (SUDs) move through the drug development process.  Both the project period and budget of the grant are consistent with the objective of accelerating the pace of medications development compared to traditional research project grant funding.  Project aims can range from the development of a new molecular entity to the expansion of an existing medications clinical indication(s). Each project should have a defined entry and exit point in the medications development pathway, with the objective of advancement in the FDA approval process.  It is hoped that support for these collaborations will accelerate the rate of medications development for SUDs."
265,Critical Aspects of Sustainability,PD-19-9102,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Economic development and human progress have led to a proliferation of manufactured chemicals and materials made from limited resources found in nature(i.e., minerals and metals,petroleum-based productsand natural gas). Long-term sustainability requires consideration of the availability of specific natural resources, energy, and water usage. NSF continues to support efforts that seek to improve the efficiency with which natural resources are used to meet human needs for products and services. Sustainability research encompasses the design, manufacture and use of efficient, effective, safe and more environmentally-benign products and processes; stimulates innovation across all sectors to design and discover new chemicals and materials, production processes, and product stewardship practices; and, increases performance and value while meeting the goals of protectingand enhancing human health and the environment.


This program seeks to support basic research through core disciplinary programs aimed at improving the sustainability of resources for future generations while maintaining or improving current products in order to offer technologically-advanced, economically competitive, environmentally-benign and useful materials to a global society. In order to address these challenges, the program aims to identify opportunities for innovation in a wide range of contributing disciplines as well as integrative activities. This program encourages the development of new experimental and theoretical/modeling approaches that will aid in both reductionist and whole-systems approaches.


This program welcomes proposals in any area of research supported through the participating divisions that address the topics outlined below. The selected topics are of particular interest to core disciplinary programs in the participating divisions and do not include all funding opportunities and priorities in the area or sustainability at NSF. Proposals are submitted to the relevant core Programs indicated below in the participating Divisions, and all questions regarding proposals should be addressed by the cognizant Program Officers to which submission is contemplated.Proposals should be submitted with the ""CAS:"" prefix in the title.


The Division of Chemistry (CHE/MPS) welcomes proposals to its Disciplinary Research Programs, including Chemical Catalysis (CAT), Chemical Measurement and Imaging (CMI), Chemical Structure, Dynamics and Mechanisms-A (CSDM-A), Chemical Structure Dynamics and Mechanisms-B (CSDM-B), Chemical Synthesis (SYN), Chemical Theory, Models and Computational Methods (CTMC), Chemistry of Life Processes (CLP), Environmental Chemical Sciences (ECS), and Macromolecular, Supramolecular and Nanochemistry (MSN).All proposals must be onchemical aspects of sustainability.


The design, preparation and reactivity studies associated with new catalysts and catalytic processes that employ earth-abundant and benign elements and raw materials; advanced catalytic methods for the reduction of dinitrogen to ammonia and water splitting are also invited; Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI) proposals, where such advances are connected directly to industrial considerations, are also encouraged.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms of the two-way communication between the environment and living systems as well as between organisms situated in changing environments; design and test methods that could confer resilience and/or could foster adaptability of living systems subject to changing environments.
Innovative measurement and imaging approaches that can improve the efficiency of manufacturing processes, including advances in separation science targeting reduced energy consumption or generation of less waste.
Fundamental studies related to sustainable energy such as chromophores based on earth abundant elements, advanced electrolytes for battery, water splitting, and carbon dioxide conversions.
Understanding the environmental chemical degradation of contaminants, including emerging contaminants.
Transformative approaches to efficient and inexpensive synthesis of polymers or nanostructures using renewable feedstocks or earth abundant elements; and innovative research that enhances the understanding of efficient use and recycling of polymers and critical elements or the conversion of energy from renewable sources.
The development of new synthetic methods using earth-abundant and inexpensive chemicals, fundamental studies that improve our understanding of rare earth elements; the conversion of non-petroleum-based resources into useful building blocks; and new environmentally-friendly chemical syntheses that improve on current practice by requiring less energy, fresh water, reagents, and/or organic solvents.
Other CHE programs also welcome proposals on this general topic, as long as the proposals fit the scope of the program.


All questions regarding proposals toCHE should be addressed to the cognizant Program Officers for the Program to which submission is contemplated (seeCHE Program webpages, https://www.nsf.gov/funding/programs.jsp?org=CHE).


The Division of Materials Research (DMR/MPS) welcomes proposals to its Topical Materials Research Programs, including Biomaterials (BMAT), Ceramics (CER), Condensed Matter and Materials Theory (CMMT), Condensed Matter Physics (CMP), Electronic and Photonic Materials (EPM), Metals and Metallic Nanostructures (MMN), Polymers (POL), and Solid State and Materials Chemistry (SSMC). All proposals must be on materials aspects of sustainability and focused on fundamental materials-research approaches.


CER, CMMT, EPM, MMN, and SSMC will consider proposals on all materials aspects of sustainability. BMAT encourages proposals that take advantage of synthetic biology or other innovative and sustainable approaches (e.g., renewable, recyclable, environmentally benign). CMP encourages proposals on replacing rare-earth elements in magnetic materials with more abundant and accessible elements; also proposals exploring materials alternatives to oxides for nuclear reactor fuel, aiming at improved stability and properties (e.g., thermal conductivity) and decreased environmental impact. POL welcomes proposals that address plastics waste accumulation through innovative materials approaches and environmentally benign polymeric materials having properties exceeding those of current commercial plastics.
All proposals must be submitted through one of the active solicitations of the DMR Topical Materials Research Programs (currently NSF 17-580, 18-500, and 19-515) and must follow the deadlines, instructions, and limitations of these solicitations. Proposals that are not in accordance with these guidelines or that fall outside the scope of DMR and its Topical Materials Research Programs will be returned without review.


All questions regarding proposals to DMR should be addressed to the cognizant Program Officers for the Program to which submission is contemplated (see DMR Program webpages, https://www.nsf.gov/funding/programs.jsp?org=DMR).


The Chemical, Bioengineering, Environmental and Transport Systems Division (CBET/ENG) has several core programs that review proposals on research topics related to sustainability, including Molecular Separations (MolS),Biosensing, Environmental Sustainability (EnvS), Biological and Environmental Interactions of Nanoscale Materials (BioNano), Combustion and Fire Systems (CFS), and Particulate and Multiphase Processes (PMP). Within these programs, as noted, the following topics are of particular interest:


Understanding the fundamental combustion properties of sustainable aviation fuels under engine relevant conditions. (CFS)
Fundamental studies leading to effective methods of processing multiphase fluid systems that minimize waste, avoid contamination, enhance purity, or lead to novel materials that benefit efficient energy utilization. (PMP)
The development of innovative separation mechanisms, mass separating agents, or engineering processes that aim to substantially reduce energy and/or material consumption in the chemical process industries. (MolS)
Fundamental mechanistic investigations for the development, sustainable production and use of nanomaterials, nanoparticles, nanodevices and nanosystems. (BioNano)
Biosensing systems with inherent capabilities of artificial intelligence, machine learning, and decision making for applications in real time monitoring of environmental and living systems and in evaluating environmentally benign chemicals and materials. (Biosensing)
Industrial Ecology: Topics of interest in Industrial Ecology include advancements in modeling such as life cycle assessment, materials flow analysis, input/output economic models, and novel metrics for measuring sustainable systems. Innovations in industrial ecology are encouraged. (EnvS)
Green Engineering: Research is encouraged to advance the sustainability of manufacturing processes, green buildings, and infrastructure. Improvements in distribution and collection systems that will advance smart growth strategies and ameliorate effects of growth are supported. Innovations in management of storm water, recycling and reuse of drinking water, and other green engineering techniques to support sustainability may also be fruitful areas for research. (EnvS)
Ecological Engineering: Topics should focus on the engineering aspects of restoring ecological function to natural systems. Engineering research in the enhancement of natural capital to foster sustainable development is encouraged. (EnvS)
Earth Systems Engineering: Earth systems engineering considers aspects of large scale engineering research that involve mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions, adaptation to climate change, and other global scale concerns. (EnvS)


All questions regarding proposals toCBET should be addressed to the cognizant Program Officers for the participating Program to which submission is contemplated (seeCBET Program webpages, https://www.nsf.gov/funding/programs.jsp?org=CBET).


For the Division of Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation (CMMI/ENG), proposals addressing sustainable materials processing are welcome. Of interest are manufacturing processes with reduced use of toxic components, such as solvents, carbon emissions, and pollutants; processes under ambient conditions, as opposed to extreme temperatures, pressures or other harsh conditions; and increased conservation of natural resources, such as water, raw material, and energy. Proposals to CMMI must be submitted to the Advanced Manufacturing (AM) Program and align with the scope of the program.


All questions regarding proposals toCMMI should be addressed to the cognizant Program Officers for the participating Program to which submission is contemplated (seeCMMI Program webpages, https://www.nsf.gov/funding/programs.jsp?org=CMMI).

The Division of Earth Sciences (EAR/GEO) welcomes fundamental and transformational geosciences projects addressing the distribution of Critical Minerals and Materials in the Earth. The following programs in the division support research on this topic: Petrology and Geochemistry (CH), Geobiology and Low-Temperature Geochemistry (GG), and Frontier Research in Earth Sciences (FRES).

Topics of particular interest include fundamental studies of the geochemistry of Critical Earth Minerals and Materials (CMM), such as:


Identifying new sources of critical minerals on the Earth’s surface;
Constraining their pathways in the natural environment involving concentration by Earth and geobiological processes; and
Developing methods for sustainable exploration of these CMMs. Studies can be based on laboratory, field, or modeling efforts, and should have a strong emphasis on training the next generation of geoscientists and educating the public on the importance of CMM.


Proposals must be submitted through one of the active solicitations of the three programs and must follow the deadlines and guidelines of these solicitations.


All questions regarding proposals toEAR should be addressed to the cognizant Program Officers for the participating Program to which submission is contemplated (seeEAR Program webpages, https://www.nsf.gov/funding/programs.jsp?org=EAR)."
266,Stimulating Innovations in Behavioral Intervention Research for Cancer Prevention and Control (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-309,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to provide support for the development of innovative interventions that improve cancer-related health behaviors across diverse racial/ethnic populations. Specifically, this FOA is intended to stimulate research aimed at 1) testing new theories and conceptual frameworks; 2) developing and evaluating novel strategies to improve cancer-related health behaviors; 3) investigating multi-level and multi-behavioral approaches; and 4) utilizing innovative research designs, methodologies, and technologies. The cancer-related health behaviors to be targeted are diet, obesity, physical activity and sedentary behavior, smoking, sleep and circadian dysfunction, alcohol use, and/or adherence to cancer-related medical regimens. Research can involve any aspect of the cancer continuum and any phase of the translational spectrum."
267,Behavioral Science Track Award for Rapid Transition (B/Start)(R03 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-310,"City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity from the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) will use a NIH Small Research Grant (R03) award mechanism to support studies that apply affective, cognitive and behavioral science approaches to research questions relevant to substance use disorders (SUD). With this R03 mechanism, NIDA aims to seed innovative affective, cognitive and behavioral hypotheses, models, and methods in preclinical and clinical SUD research. The B/START R03 is intended for recently-independent investigators with expertise in behavioral science as well as established investigators who are using behavioral science approaches to SUD for the first time.  Studies supported by B/START are expected to produce a coherent set of preliminary findings that would inform the design of a more complete study and serve as preliminary data supporting feasibility or scientific rationale in an R01, R21 or similar application."
268,BRAIN Initiative:  Non-Invasive Neuromodulation - New Tools and Techniques for Spatiotemporal Precision (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-MH-20-310,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) solicits grant applications in two related but distinct areas. The first area is in the development and testing of novel tools and methods of neuromodulation that go beyond the existing forms of neural stimulation. The second distinct area that this FOA seeks to encourage is the optimization of existing stimulation methods.
269,"Development of Novel and Robust Systems for Mechanistic Studies of Gene-Environment Interplay in Dental, Oral, Craniofacial, and Other Diseases and Conditions (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)",PAR-19-293,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is intended to foster research towards a better understanding of the biological mechanisms of gene-environment interplay in human diseases and conditions.  Through this FOA, the NIDCR and NIEHS solicit applications to develop novel and robust experimental systems that offer approaches complementary to human epidemiologic or in vivo studies to facilitate mechanistic investigation of gene-environment interplay in dental, oral, craniofacial, and other diseases and conditions."
270,"Mechanistic Studies of Gene-Environment Interplay in Dental, Oral, Craniofacial, and Other Diseases and Conditions (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed)",PAR-19-292,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This FOA is intended to foster research towards a better understanding of the biological mechanisms of gene-environment interplay in human diseases and conditions.  Through this FOA, the NIDCR and NIEHS solicit applications that use animal models, in vitro systems, or ex vivo approaches to conduct mechanistic investigation of the interplay of genes/gene networks and environmental factors in dental, oral, craniofacial, and other diseases and conditions."
271,Innovative Technology Experiences for Students and Teachers,19-583,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"

ITEST is an applied research and development (R&D) program providing direct student learning opportunities in pre-kindergarten through high school (PreK-12). The learning opportunities are based on innovative use of technology to strengthen knowledge and interest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and information and communication technology (ICT) careers. To achieve this purpose, ITEST supports projects that engage students in technology-rich experiences that: (1) increase awareness and interest of STEM and ICT occupations; (2) motivate students to pursue appropriate education pathways to those occupations; and (3) develop STEM-specific disciplinary content knowledge and practices that promote critical thinking, reasoning, and communication skills needed for entering the STEM and ICT workforce of the future.


ITEST seeks proposals that pursue innovative instructional approaches and practices in formal and informal learning environments, in close collaboration with strategic partnerships. ITEST proposals should broaden participation of all students, particularly those in underrepresented and underserved groups in STEM fields and related education and workforce domains. ITEST supports three types of projects: (1) Exploring Theory and Design Principles (ETD); (2) Developing and Testing Innovations (DTI); and (3) Scaling, Expanding, and Iterating Innovations (SEI). ITEST also supports Synthesis and Conference proposals.

All ITEST proposals must address how they are (A) designing innovations that meet ITEST program goals which include innovative use of technologies, innovative learning experiences, STEM workforce development, strategies for broadening participation, and strategic partnerships; and (B) measuring outcomes through high-quality research which includes high-quality research design, project evaluation, and dissemination of findings.
"
272,Exploratory Clinical Neuroscience Research on Substance Use Disorders (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-282,"For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) uses a R61/R33 Phased Innovation Award mechanism to support clinical research applications that are exploratory and developmental in nature and focus on understanding the neurobiological mechanisms underlying SUD, including fundamental brain function relevant to substance use.  This FOA is particularly designed to support exploratory/developmental projects requiring budgets that would exceed that allowed for the R21 mechanism (Neuroscience Research on Drug Abuse (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)"
273,Fogarty HIV Research Training Program for Low-and Middle-Income Country Institutions (D43 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-283,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage applications for research training programs to strengthen the scientific capacity of institutions in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) to conduct HIV research relevant to the evolving HIV epidemic in their country.
274,Infrastructure Development Training Programs for Critical HIV Research at Low-and Middle-Income Country Institutions (G11 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-19-285,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The overall goal of the Fogarty International Center (FIC) HIV Research Training Program is to strengthen the scientific capacity of institutions in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) to conduct HIV research on the evolving HIV epidemic in their countries. This FOA encourages collaborative applications from U.S. and LMIC institutions to support training to achieve technical, administration and financial management expertise required for one of the six research infrastructure functions considered critical to a successful high quality research environment: Research administration and management; Research integrity oversight; Ethical review of research for the protection of human subjects; Laboratory animal  welfare oversight Health sciences  library and information services; and Information and communications technology systems (ICT) for research Research infrastructure training programs will maximize previous investments and further strengthen the LMIC institution's research capabilities, and provide more accessible research infrastructure training opportunities to others in their own country and in other LMICs."
275,Provocative Questions (PQs) in Multiple Myeloma Disparities Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-279,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsIndependent school districtsState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite applications for research projects designed to solve specific problems and paradoxes in multiple myeloma (MM) and disparities research identified by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) as the NCIs Multiple Myeloma Disparities Provocative Questions (MMD PQs). These problems and paradoxes phrased as questions are not intended to represent the full range of NCI's priorities in multiple myeloma research. Rather, they are meant to challenge cancer researchers to think about and elucidate specific problems in key areas of multiple myeloma and disparities research that are deemed important but have not received sufficient attention. The FOA includes 6 Multiple Myeloma PQs that represent diverse fields relevant to multiple myeloma disparities research, but all are framed to inspire interested scientists to conceive new approaches and/or feasible solutions. Each research project proposed in response to this FOA must be focused on addressing one particular research problem defined by one specific MMD PQ selected from the list. Projects proposed to address specific MMD PQs may use strategies that incorporate ideas and approaches from multiple disciplines, as appropriate. Transdisciplinary projects are encouraged as long as they serve the scientific focus of the specific PQ chosen."
276,Provocative Questions (PQs) in Multiple Myeloma Disparities Research (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-280,"County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to invite applications for research projects designed to solve specific problems and paradoxes in multiple myeloma (MM) and disparities research identified as the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Multiple Myeloma Disparities Provocative Questions (MMD PQs). These problems and paradoxes phrased as questions are not intended to represent the full range of NCI's priorities in multiple myeloma research. Rather, they are meant to challenge cancer researchers to think about and elucidate specific problems in key areas of multiple myeloma and disparities research that are deemed important but have not received sufficient attention."
277,Dissemination and Implementation Research in Health (R03 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-276,"Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages investigators to submit research grant applications that will identify, develop, test, evaluate and/or refine strategies to disseminate and implement evidence-based practices (e.g. behavioral interventions; prevention, early detection, diagnostic, treatment and disease management interventions; quality improvement programs) into public health, clinical practice, and community settings. In addition, studies to advance dissemination and implementation research methods and measures are encouraged."
278,Dissemination and Implementation Research in Health (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-275,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages investigators to submit research grant applications that will identify, develop, test, evaluate and/or refine strategies to disseminate and implement evidence-based practices (e.g. behavioral interventions; prevention, early detection, diagnostic, treatment and disease management interventions; quality improvement programs) into public health, clinical practice, and community settings. In addition, studies to advance dissemination and implementation research methods and measures are encouraged."
279,Exploratory Grants in Cancer Epidemiology (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-277,"State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages the submission of exploratory/developmental research grant (R21) applications for cancer epidemiologic research. The overarching goal is to provide support to promote the early and conceptual stages of research efforts on novel scientific ideas that have the potential to substantially advance population-based cancer research, such as improving data collection methods, developing and validating methods of exposures and biological effects, such as epigenetics and metabolomics, and their application in population-based research, functional assessment of genetic variants, and assessing recruitment methods for understudied populations."
280,Exploiting Genome or Epigenome Editing to Functionally Validate Genes or Variants Involved in Substance Use Disorders (R21/R33 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-278,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this initiative is to support projects which exploit genome or epigenome editing to functionally validate and characterize genes or variants involved in substance use disorder-relevant phenotypes.  It is expected that any genetic resources generated will be made broadly available to the scientific community to enable investigation of the relevant neurobiological mechanisms involved and provide critical foundational knowledge for the development of future prevention, diagnostic, and therapeutic strategies."
281,Dissemination and Implementation Research in Health (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-274,"City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages investigators to submit research grant applications that will identify, develop, test, evaluate and/or refine strategies to disseminate and implement evidence-based practices (e.g. behavioral interventions; prevention, early detection, diagnostic, treatment and disease management interventions; quality improvement programs) into public health, clinical practice, and community settings. In addition, studies to advance dissemination and implementation research methods and measures are encouraged."
282,"Imaging, Biomarkers and Digital Pathomics for the Early Detection of Premetastatic Aggressive Cancer (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-19-264,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) will support the development and characterization of state-of-the-art projects that include imaging, biomarkers, digital pathomic and other omic data integration strategies for improving current approaches for the earliest detection of premetastatic aggressive cancer as well as identifying precancerous lesions that will subsequently demonstrate an aggressive phenotype. This FOA specifically attempts to address and improve diagnostic uncertainty in clinical decisions in a technology agnostic manner by improving sensitivity and specificity of applied tests. N-dimensional co-registered, cross-correlated imaging data integrated with multiplexed biomarker results and digital pathomics using analytic strategies such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality visualization for improving cancer research discovery are encouraged. The projects supported by this FOA will collectively participate in the existing Consortium for Imaging and Biomarkers (CIB) Research Program. The goals of the CIB are to: (1) improve diagnostic performance by developing methodology for the early identification of lethal cancer versus non-lethal disease, (2) to minimize/better manage overdiagnosis and (3) to reduce false positives and false negatives."
283,NIDA Research Center of Excellence Grant Program (P50 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-259,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to provide support for research Centers that (1) conduct drug abuse and addiction research in any area of NIDAs mission, (2) have outstanding innovative science, (3) are multidisciplinary, thematically integrated, synergistic, and (4) serve as national resource(s) to provide educational and outreach activities to drug abuse research communities, educational organizations, the general public, and policy makers in the NIDA research fields. It is expected that a Center will transform knowledge in the sciences it is studying. Incremental work should not be the focus of Center activities; rather, new and creative directions are required. The P50 Center of Excellence is expected to foster the career development and mentoring of new investigators who would be given meaningful roles to play in the Center projects. A goal of this program is to create NIDA Centers that are national community resources for furthering drug abuse research by sharing their findings, their data, and their resources as appropriate for researchers to use and build upon and to advance research in this field."
284,NIDA Research Education Program for Clinical Researchers and Clinicians (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-258,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsState governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The over-arching goal of this NIDA R25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nations biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs. This FOA is intended to support research education activities that enhance the knowledge of substance use and substance use disorder research. The program is intended for those in clinically focused careers and/or those training for careers as clinicians/health service providers, clinical researchers, or optimally a combination of the two. This mechanism may not be used to support non-research-related clinical training."
285,Limited Competition: Modular Budget Research Project Grant for NIH Nurse Scientist Scholars (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-256,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage modular budget R01 grant applications from nurse scientists who are currently or were recently supported by an NIH Career Development (K) award. This opportunity is limited to those K awardee nurse scientists who have not yet earned an R01 equivalent award.  Through this opportunity, NINR seeks to enhance the transition of nurse scientists to independent investigator status."
286,Basic and Translational Research on Adducts in Cancer Risk Identification and Prevention (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-251,"For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The overall objective of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support innovative research on adducts to cellular macromolecules as indicators of exposures to endogenous and exogenous cancer risk factors relevant to exposures in human populations. The priority is on projects that will focus on adductomic approaches, i.e., address some aspects of the totality of adducts. The ultimate goal is to discover and characterize the utility of adductomic-based exposure indicators for cancer detection, cancer prevention, and/or assessing cancer risks. In well-justified cases, innovative studies using the adductomic approaches in the context of cancer etiology and/or gene-environment interaction research may also be appropriate. For projects intended for NIEHS support, the focus may be on innovative technology and method development."
287,Basic and Translational Research on Adducts in Cancer Risk Identification and Prevention (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-252,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The overall objective of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support innovative research on adducts to cellular macromolecules as indicators of exposures to endogenous and exogenous cancer risk factors relevant to exposures in human populations. The priority is on projects that will focus on adductomic approaches, i.e., address some aspects of the totality of adducts. The ultimate goal is to discover and characterize the utility of adductomic-based exposure indicators for cancer detection, cancer prevention, and/or assessing cancer risks. In well-justified cases, innovative studies using the adductomic approaches in the context of cancer etiology and/or gene-environment interaction research may also be appropriate. For projects intended for NIEHS support, the focus may be on innovative technology and method development."
288,Environmental Influences on Aging: Effects of Extreme Weather and Disaster Events on Aging Processes (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-249,"State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to support research to explore the impacts of extreme weather and disaster events on the basic biology of aging. The goal is to fund studies in laboratory animals that will complement and inform studies in the companion FOA on the adverse effects of extreme weather and related disasters in the elderly and adults over the aging life course.
289,Military Medical Photonics Program,FA9550-19-S-0004,"For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",Air Force Office of Scientific Research,"The Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) seeks unclassified proposals for broad-based research and development aimed at using lasers and other light source technology to develop applications in medicine, photobiology, surgery, and closely related materials sciences, with applications to combat casualty care and other military medical problems. This announcement is primarily directed toward university-based medical institutions; however, all qualified and responsible prime applicants located in the United States are eligible to submit proposals. The highest priority will be extended to proposals up to three (3) years duration to be conducted by teams of physicians, biomedical scientists, physical scientists, and engineers. The efforts proposed may be basic or applied research, and must have direct relevance to combat casualty care or other military medical priorities. Applicants must demonstrate substantial experience working to further military medical priorities, including transitioning research into clinical practice and working products. Substantial experience collaborating with military medical centers is also a requirement to establish relevance to combat casualty care or other military medical priorities, and facilitate the transition of research results to meet military needs. Applicants are encouraged to apply as early as practicable. Proposals may be reviewed and selected as received. Awards may take the form of grants or contracts"
290,BRAIN Initiative: Secondary Analysis and Archiving of BRAIN Initiative Data (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-MH-20-120,"Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The BRAIN Initiative and the neuroscience field as a whole is generating massive and diverse research data across different modalities, spatiotemporal scales and species in efforts to advance our understanding of the brain. The data types are being produced through development and application of innovative technologies in high-throughput -omics profiling, optical microscopy, electron microscopy, electrophysiological recording, macroscale neuroimaging, neuromodulation, and others. The BRAIN Initiative has made significant investments in the development of an infrastructure to make data available to the research community in a useful way. This infrastructure includes data archives, data standards, and software for data integration, analysis and machine learning. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages secondary analysis of the large amounts of existing data related to the BRAIN Initiative. The data do not need to be held in one of the funded BRAIN Initiative data archives, but the data must be held in a data archive that is readily accessible to the research community. Support will be provided for innovative analysis of relevant existing datasets using conventional or novel analytic methods, data science techniques, and machine learning approaches. Support may also be requested to prepare and submit existing data into any of the BRAIN Initiative data archives. Investigators should not underestimate the time and effort that may be necessary to curate or harmonize data. Analyzed data, models and analytical tools generated under this FOA are expected to be deposited into an appropriate data archive. Since the BRAIN Initiative data archives are mostly making the data available to the research community through cloud-based storage, depositing the analyzed data, models and tools are expected to enhance opportunities to create a data sandbox where investigators can easily compare the results of their analysis with those from other research groups."
291,Research Interests of the Air Force Office of Scientific Research,FA9550-19-S-0003,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businesses",Air Force Office of Scientific Research,"AFOSR plans, coordinates, and executes the Air Force Research Laboratory’s (AFRL) basic research program in response to technical guidance from AFRL and requirements of the Air Force. Additionally, the office fosters, supports, and conducts research within Air Force, university, and industry laboratories; and ensures transition of research results to support U.S. Air Force needs. The focus of AFOSR is on research areas that offer significant and comprehensive benefits to our national war fighting and peacekeeping capabilities. These areas are organized and managed in two scientific Departments: Engineering and Information Science (RTA) and Physical and Biological Sciences (RTB). The research activities managed within each Department are summarized in this section."
292,Paul Calabresi Career Development Award for Clinical Oncology (K12 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-242,"City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) allows appointment of Scholars proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial; or proposing a separate ancillary study to an existing trial; or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, as part of their research and career development."
293,BRAIN Initiative: Tools to Facilitate High-Throughput Microconnectivity Analysis (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-MH-20-135,"State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative is to encourage applications that will develop and validate tools and resources to facilitate the detailed analysis of brain microconnectivity. Novel and augmented techniques are sought that will ultimately be broadly accessible to the neuroscience community for the interrogation of microconnectivity in healthy and diseased brains of model organisms and humans. Development of technologies that will significantly drive down the cost of connectomics would enable routine mapping of the microconnectivity on the same individuals that have been analyzed physiologically, or to compare normal and pathological tissues in substantial numbers of multiple individuals to assess variability. Advancements in both electron microscopy (EM) and super resolution light microscopic approaches are sought. Applications that propose to develop approaches that break through existing technical barriers to substantially improve current capabilities are highly encouraged. Proof-of-principle demonstrations and/or reference datasets enabling future development are welcome, as are improved approaches for automated segmentation and analysis strategies of neuronal structures in EM images.no"
294,High-Risk Research in Biological Anthropology and Archaeology,19-570,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Anthropological research may be conducted under unusual circumstances, often in distant locations. As a result the ability to conduct potentially important research may hinge on factors that are impossible to assess from a distance and some projects with potentially great payoffs may face difficulties in securing funding. This program gives small awards that provide investigators with the opportunity to assess the feasibility of an anthropological research project. It is required that the proposed activity be clearly high risk in nature. The information gathered may then be used as the basis for preparing a more fully developed research program. 


Investigators must contact the cognizant NSF Program Director before submitting an HRRBAA proposal. This will facilitate determining whether the proposed work is appropriate for HRRBAA support."
295,Broadening Participation in Engineering,PD-19-7680,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"NSF seeks to strengthen the future U.S. Engineering workforce by enabling the participation of all citizens through the support of research in the science of Broadening Participation in Engineering (BPE). The BPE program is a dedicated to supporting the development of a diverse and well-prepared engineering workforce. BPE focuses on enhancing the diversity and inclusion of all underrepresentedpopulations in engineering, including gender identity and expression, race and ethnicity (African Americans/Blacks, Hispanic Americans, American Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, and Native Pacific Islanders), disability, LGBTQ+, first generation college and socio-economic status.


BPE funds research to


Understand and analyze the systemicbarriers that prevent underrepresented groups from pursuing and succeeding in engineering, for example, understand the problem of insufficient interest and poorly sustained participation in engineering across underrepresented demographic groups; insufficient preparation and scarce opportunities for members of underrepresented groups to learn meaningful, relevant engineering content.
Understand and analyze factors that enhance our ability to increase access to engineering by creating support systems and social networks that raise career awareness about different engineering pathways.
Develop innovativemethods and projectstosignificantly impact the recruitment and retention ofengineering students from underrepresented groups. Activities must be supported by relevant dataand have the capability to produce a model that can be replicated in other contexts.
Develop innovativemethods and projectsto aggressively recruit and retain tenure track faculty from underrepresented groups.
Design and transform culture to make diversity, equity, and inclusion a priority in the engineering enterprise.


BPE research activities will provide scientific evidence that engineering educators, employers, and policy makers need to make informed decisions to design effective programs that broaden the participation of persons from historically underrepresented groups in the engineering workforce. BPE is interested in funding research that spans K-12 to workforce and offers the greatest return on investment. BPE funded research shouldproduce outcomes that are scalable, sustainable, and applicable to various contexts, settings, and demographics within the engineering enterprise. BPE is particularly interested inresearch that employs intersectional approaches in recognition that gender, race and ethnicity do not exist in isolation from each other and from other categories of social identity.


BPE is equally interested in research activities that align with and provide meaningful connections to the NSF INCLUDES National Network. The overarching goal of NSF INCLUDES is to achieve significant impact at scale in transforming STEM education and workforce development by educating a diverse, STEM-capable workforce that includes talented individuals from all sectors of the Nation's population. Collaborations are encouraged between BPE proposals and existing NSF INCLUDES projects, for example, the NSF INCLUDES Alliances and Coordination Hub, provided these collaborations strengthen both the BPE and NSF INCLUDES projects.


Before submitting a proposal to the BPE program, prospective Principal Investigators are strongly encouraged to speak to the program director to obtain guidance as to whether the proposed ideas are aligned with the strategic goals of the BPE program.

Proposal Elements

All BPE proposals should



Be informed by the current theoretical and scientific literature as well as add to the extant knowledge base.


Directly address how the work will broaden the participation of one or more underrepresented populations in engineering.


Provide appropriate justification to support selection of the targeted group(s), with specific and applicable objectives, and demonstrate applicable knowledge of the relevant literature on underrepresentation.

Integrate a mechanism to assess and evaluate how well the project has achieved the stated objectives as part of the project management plan.

Provide evidence of clear, measurable outcomes and consideration of how the strategy will advance knowledge beyond localized contexts.


Incorporate a dissemination plan that goes beyond publishing research papers and presenting at conferences. PIs should think creatively about who needs to hear about the research for it to have an impact, and develop a strategy to reach that audience.


Describe how the outcomes have the potential to enhance diversity and inclusion of underrepresented populations in engineering.


The Project Summary must contain a list of 3-5 keywords. Place the keywords on a separate line at the end of the Overview section of the Project Summary.

"
296,Transition to Independent Environmental Health Research (TIEHR) Career Award (K01 Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PAR-19-225,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The Transitions to Independent Environmental Health (TIEHR) Career Award is a 3-year bridge scholar career development program for newly independent faculty (within the first three years of their first independent faculty appointment) who intend to pursue research careers in the environmental health sciences.  The award provides salary support and pilot funding during this critical period so that the candidate can further develop their research program  and, subsequently, successfully compete for research funding in the environmental health sciences at the completion of the award."
297,Feasibility and Planning Studies for Development of Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs) to Investigate Cancer Health Disparities (P20 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-CA-19-034,"Small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications for development of translational research programs that are focused upon investigating cancer health disparities. The P20 grants will support feasibility and planning activities to build cancer health disparities research programs. It is the expectation that the research programs developed by the P20 awards should be competitive with other applications for a full Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPORE), addressing cancer health disparities as a cross-cutting research theme.  All applications must propose translational research that will contribute to improved prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and/or treatment of cancers found to disproportionately affect specific racial/ethnic minority populations. Furthermore, all research projects must be focused upon knowledge of human biology with a translational human endpoint proposed. All P20 grants must include a minimum of two well-developed translational research projects, as well as contribute significantly to the development of specialized shared resources core facilities, improved research model systems, and collaborative research activities with other institutions, P20 awardees, and/or current SPORE grantees"
298,Behavioral and Integrative Treatment Development Program (R34 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-213,"Small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage behavioral intervention development research to test efficacy, conduct clinical trials, examine mechanisms of behavior change, determine dose-response, treatment optimization, and/or ascertain best sequencing of behavioral, combined, sequential, or integrated behavioral and pharmacological (1) drug abuse treatment interventions, including interventions for patients with comorbidities; (2) drug abuse treatment and adherence interventions; (3) drug abuse treatment and adherence interventions that utilize technologies to boost effects and increase implementability and sustainability; (4) interventions to prevent the acquisition or transmission of HIV infection among individuals in drug abuse treatment; (5) interventions to promote adherence to drug abuse treatment, HIV and addiction medications; and (6) interventions to treat substance misuse and chronic pain. Research of interest includes but is not limited to Stage I research."
299,Behavioral and Integrative Treatment Development Program (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-212,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage behavioral intervention development research to test efficacy, conduct clinical trials, examine mechanisms of behavior change, determine dose-response, treatment optimization, and/or ascertain best sequencing of behavioral, combined, sequential, or integrated behavioral and pharmacological (1) drug abuse treatment interventions, including interventions for patients with comorbidities; (2) drug abuse treatment and adherence interventions; (3) drug abuse treatment and adherence interventions that utilize technologies to boost effects and increase implementability and sustainability; (4) interventions to prevent the acquisition or transmission of HIV infection among individuals in drug abuse treatment; (5) interventions to promote adherence to drug abuse treatment, HIV and addiction medications; and (6) interventions to treat substance misuse and chronic pain. Research of interest includes but is not limited to Stage II and Stage III efficacy research."
300,Military Medical Photonics Program (Small),FA9550-19-S-0002,"Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",Air Force Office of Scientific Research,"The Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) seeks unclassified proposals for research and development aimed at using lasers and other light source technology to develop applications in medicine, photobiology, surgery, and closely related materials sciences, with applications to combat casualty care and other military medical problems. This announcement is for a small number of individual awards. It is complementary to ongoing and future planed broad based awards, primarily directed toward university-based medical institutions, conducted by teams of physicians, biomedical scientists, physical scientists, and engineers. The efforts proposed may be basic or applied research, and must have direct relevance to combat casualty care or other military medical priorities. They must offer unique capabilities, not substantially funded by other DOD or other agency programs. Applicants must demonstrate substantial experience working to further military medical priorities, including transitioning research into clinical practice and working products. Substantial experience collaborating with military medical centers is also a requirement to establish relevance to combat casualty care or other military medical priorities, and facilitate the transition of research results to meet military needs."
301,Alcohol and Other Substance Use Research Education Programs for Health Professionals (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-207,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH. The over-arching goal of this NIAAA/NIDA R25 program is to support educational activities that foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research on alcohol and other substance use disorders and their implications. To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on Outreach. Specifically, this FOA will support projects designed to engage practicing health care professionals in education about current and emerging knowledge derived from scientific research on the neurobiology, epidemiology, prevention, and/or treatment of alcohol and other substance use disorders and related health conditions."
302,Mechanisms Underlying the Contribution of Sleep Disturbances to Pain (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-201,"City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOAs are to encourage mechanistic research to investigate the impact of sleep disturbances on chronic pain. The mechanisms and processes underlying the contribution of sleep disturbances to chronic pain development and maintenance may be very broad. This FOA encourages interdisciplinary collaborations by experts from multiple fieldsneuroscientists, psychologists,endocrinologists, immunologists, geneticists, pharmacologists, chemists, physicists, behavioral scientists, clinicians, caregivers, and others in relevant fields of inquiry."
303,Mechanisms Underlying the Contribution of Sleep Disturbances to Pain (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-200,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is to encourage mechanistic research to investigate the impact of sleep disturbances on pain. The mechanisms and processes underlying the contribution of sleep and sleep disturbances to pain perception and the development and maintenance of chronic pain may be very broad. This FOA encourages interdisciplinary research collaborations by experts from multiple fieldsneuroscientists, psychologists, endocrinologists, immunologists, geneticists, pharmacologists, chemists, physicists, behavioral scientists, clinicians, caregivers, and others in relevant fields of inquiry."
304,Modulating Intestinal Microbiota to Enhance Protective Immune Responses against Cancer (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-199,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsSmall businessesIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support research which can elucidate mechanism(s) of action by which gut microbes inhibit or enhance anti-tumor immune responses.  Thus, research projects should be focused on delineating how specific microbes or their metabolites target host immune responses to prevent colitis-associated or sporadic tumor formation."
305,Modulating Intestinal Microbiota to Enhance Protective Immune Responses against Cancer (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-198,"County governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support research which can elucidate mechanism(s) of action by which gut microbes inhibit or enhance anti-tumor immune responses.  Thus, research projects should be focused on delineating how specific microbes or their metabolites target host immune responses to prevent colitis-associated or sporadic tumor formation."
306,Summer Research Education Experience Program (R25 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-197,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH.  The over-arching goal of this R25 program is to support educational activities that foster a better understanding of biomedical, behavioral and clinical research and its implications.  To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on     research experiences for high school or undergraduate students or science teachers during the summer academic break.  The proposed program needs to fit within the mission of the participating IC that the application is being submitted to and should not have a general STEM focus (see below and Table of IC-Specific Information and Points of Contact)."
307,Microbial-based Cancer Therapy -Bugs as Drugs (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-194,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The overall purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate the development of novel microbial-based cancer therapies, especially for conditions where conventional cancer therapies are inadequate, such as poorly vascularized, hypoxic, solid tumors, dormant or slowly dividing cells resistant to current interventions, and brain tumors. Utilizing bacteria, archaebacteria, bacteriophages and other non-virus microorganisms, this initiative will support research projects designed to study the underlying mechanisms of the complex interactions between microorganisms, tumor, and immune system. The FOA also aims to support research into the use of microorganisms as delivery vehicles for cancer treatment and to complement or synergize with current therapies.  This FOA will accept basic mechanistic and preclinical studies in cell culture and animal models in accordance with the state of the science. Applicants responding to this FOA must address both the microbial and the tumor aspects of microbial-based cancer therapy. Complex microbial-tumor interactions are best addressed with a multidisciplinary approach. The purpose of this FOA is to encourage basic or applied, multidisciplinary research collaborations between investigators from areas relevant to microbial-based cancer therapy, such as microbiology, oncology, immunology, and cellular and molecular cancer biology. The proposed projects should be state of the art and aim to advance pre-clinical development of novel microbial-based anticancer therapeutic agents, or study the complex biology involved in the interplay of microbe-tumor-immune system. An application may propose design-directed, developmental, discovery-driven, or hypothesis-driven research, and should apply an integrative approach to increase our understanding of biological, or translational aspects of microbial-based anticancer therapeutic agents."
308,Microbial-based Cancer Therapy -Bugs as Drugs (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-193,"State governmentsCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The overall purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate the development of novel microbial-based cancer therapies, especially for conditions where conventional cancer therapies are inadequate, such as poorly vascularized, hypoxic, solid tumors, dormant or slowly dividing cells resistant to current interventions, and brain tumors. Utilizing bacteria, archaebacteria, bacteriophages and other non-virus microorganisms, this initiative will support research projects designed to study the underlying mechanisms of the complex interactions between microorganisms, tumor, and immune system. The FOA also aims to support research into the use of microorganisms as delivery vehicles for cancer treatment and to complement or synergize with current therapies.  This FOA will accept basic mechanistic and preclinical studies in cell culture and animal models in accordance with the state of the science. Applicants responding to this FOA must address both the microbial and the tumor aspects of microbial-based cancer therapy. Complex microbial-tumor interactions are best addressed with a multidisciplinary approach. The purpose of this FOA is to encourage basic or applied, multidisciplinary research collaborations between investigators from areas relevant to microbial-based cancer therapy, such as microbiology, oncology, immunology, and cellular and molecular cancer biology. The proposed projects should be state of the art and aim to advance pre-clinical development of novel microbial-based anticancer therapeutic agents, or study the complex biology involved in the interplay of microbe-tumor-immune system. An application may propose design-directed, developmental, discovery-driven, or hypothesis-driven research, and should apply an integrative approach to increase our understanding of biological, or translational aspects of microbial-based anticancer therapeutic agents."
309,A Science of Science Policy Approach to Analyzing and Innovating the Biomedical Research Enterprise,19-547,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) are interested in proposals that will propel our understanding of the biomedical research enterprise by drawing from the scientific expertise of the science of science policy research community.


NSF promotes the progress of science by maintaining the general health of research and education across all fields of science and engineering. The Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences (SBE) Directorate within the NSF supports basic research on people and society. The SBE sciences focus on human behavior and social organizations and how social, economic, political, cultural, and environmental forces affect the lives of people from birth to old age and how people in turn shape those forces. SBE's Science of Science and Innovation Policy (SciSIP) program supports research designed to advance the scientific basis of science and innovation policy.


The NIH is the U.S. Federal agency charged with supporting biomedical research in the U.S.The National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) within the NIH supports basic biomedical research that increases understanding of biological processes and lays the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.


Both the NSF and NIH believe that there are opportunities and needs in building and supporting research projects with a focus on the scientific research enterprise. The two agencies also recognize that when programmatic goals are compatible, coordinated management and funding of a research program can have a positive synergistic effect on the level and scope of research and can leverage the investments of both agencies.


Therefore, NIGMS and SBE are partnering to enable collaboration in research between the SciSIP program and NIGMS. This partnership will result in a portfolio of high quality research to provide scientific analysis of important aspects of the biomedical research enterprise and efforts to foster a diverse, innovative, productive and efficient scientific workforce, from which future scientific leaders will emerge.


Prospective investigators are strongly encouraged to discuss theirproposals with the cognizant Program Officers before submission to determine project relevance to the priorities of both SBE and NIGMS. Specific questions pertaining to this solicitation can also be directed to the cognizant Program Officers."
310,Biology of Bladder Cancer (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-184,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) solicits applications investigating the biology and underlying mechanisms of bladder cancer. Bladder cancer is a significant health problem both in the United States and globally. Because of the high incidence and frequent tumor recurrence, bladder cancer exacts an outsized medical burden. While recent progress has been made in the molecular profiling of bladder cancers and identification of mutated genes, relatively little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms driving initiation, progression, and malignancy of bladder cancer. Furthermore, our understanding of biological processes of the normal bladder at the molecular, cell and organ levels is limited. Fundamental knowledge of how molecular and cellular functions of the bladder are altered in cancer will aid our understanding of bladder cancer biology and interventions. Applications that involve multidisciplinary teams and use clinical specimens or investigate both normal and cancer processes are encouraged."
311,Biology of Bladder Cancer (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-183,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsCity or township governmentsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) solicits applications investigating the biology and underlying mechanisms of bladder cancer. Bladder cancer is a significant health problem both in the United States and globally. Because of the high incidence and frequent tumor recurrence, bladder cancer exacts an outsized medical burden. While recent progress has been made in the molecular profiling of bladder cancers and identification of mutated genes, relatively little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms driving initiation, progression, and malignancy of bladder cancer. Furthermore, our understanding of biological processes of the normal bladder at the molecular, cell and organ levels is limited. Fundamental knowledge of how molecular and cellular functions of the bladder are altered in cancer will aid our understanding of bladder cancer biology and interventions. Applications that involve multidisciplinary teams and use clinical specimens or investigate both normal and cancer processes are encouraged."
312,Accelerating the Pace of Child Health Research Using Existing Data from the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study (R01-Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-162,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development (ABCD) Study is collecting data on health and mental health, cognitive function, substance use, cultural and environmental factors, and brain structure and function from youth starting when they are 9-10 years-old repeatedly for 10 years and makes that data available to the scientific community through the NIMH Data Archive. The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage applications proposing the analysis of this public use dataset to increase knowledge of adolescent health and development. More information about the ABCD Study may be found on the ABCD Study web page (www.abcdstudy.org)."
313,End-of-Life and Palliative Needs of Adolescents and Young Adults (AYA) with Serious Illnesses (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-153,"City or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to foster research on the unique perspectives, needs, wishes, and decision-making processes of adolescents and young adults (AYA; defined by the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as youth between 1224 years of age) with serious, advanced illnesses; and research focused on specific end-of-life/palliative care (EOLPC) models that support the physical, psychological, spiritual, and social needs of AYA with serious illness, their families and caregivers."
314,Exploratory/Developmental Bioengineering Research Grants (EBRG) (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-149,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this engineering-oriented funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage submissions of exploratory/developmental Bioengineering Research Grant (EBRG) applications to demonstrate feasibility and potential utility of new capabilities or improvements in quality, speed, efficacy, operability, costs, and/or accessibility of solutions to problems in basic biomedical, pre-clinical, or clinical research, clinical care delivery, or accessibility."
315,Exploratory/Developmental Bioengineering Research Grants (EBRG) (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-150,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this engineering-oriented funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage submissions of Exploratory/Developmental Bioengineering Research Grant (EBRG) applications to demonstrate feasibility and potential utility of new capabilities or improvements in quality, speed, efficacy, operability, costs, and/or accessibility of solutions to problems in basic biomedical, pre-clinical, or clinical research, clinical care delivery, or accessibility."
316,Bioengineering Research Grants (BRG) (R01 Clinical Trial Required),PAR-19-159,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to encourage collaborations between the life and physical sciences that: 1) apply a multidisciplinary bioengineering approach to the solution of a biomedical problem; and 2) integrate, optimize, validate, translate or otherwise accelerate the adoption of promising tools, methods and techniques for a specific research or clinical problem in basic, translational, or clinical science and practice. An application may propose design-directed, developmental, discovery-driven, or hypothesis-driven research and is appropriate for small teams applying an integrative approach to increase our understanding of and solve problems in biological, clinical or translational science."
317,Bioengineering Research Grants (BRG) (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-158,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to encourage collaborations between the life and physical sciences that: 1) apply a multidisciplinary bioengineering approach to the solution of a biomedical problem; and 2) integrate, optimize, validate, translate or otherwise accelerate the adoption of promising tools, methods and techniques for a specific research or clinical problem in basic, translational, or clinical science and practice. An application may propose design-directed, developmental, discovery-driven, or hypothesis-driven research and is appropriate for small teams applying an integrative approach to increase our understanding of and solve problems in biological, clinical or translational science."
318,Drug Discovery For Nervous System Disorders (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-146,"City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) intends to support investigators who have interest and capability in the discovery of novel compounds for the prevention and treatment of nervous system disorders.   Through this FOA NIH wishes to stimulate research in 1) Identification, design, synthesis, and preclinical testing of compounds of candidate therapeutics, 2) Initial hit-to-lead chemistry to improve activity of compounds against the target of interest, 3) Later stage lead optimization to improve efficacy and pharmacokinetics, and 4) Initial drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK). Emphasis will be placed on projects that provide novel approaches to identify potential therapeutic agents."
319,Drug Discovery For Nervous System Disorders (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-19-147,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) supports the discovery of novel compounds for the prevention and treatment of nervous system disorders.   Through this FOA NIMH and NIA wish to stimulate research in: 1) Identification, design, synthesis, and preclinical testing of compounds of candidate therapeutics; 2) Initial hit-to-lead chemistry to improve activity of compounds against the target of interest; 3) Later stage lead optimization to improve efficacy and pharmacokinetics; and 4) Initial drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic (DMPK). Emphasis will be placed on projects that provide novel approaches for identifying potential therapeutic agents."
320,End-of-Life and Palliative Needs of Adolescents and Young Adults (AYA) with Serious Illnesses (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-136,"Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to foster research on the unique perspectives, needs, wishes, and decision-making processes of adolescents and young adults (AYA; defined by the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as youth between 1224 years of age) with serious, advanced illnesses; and research focused on specific end-of-life/palliative care (EOLPC) models that support the physical, psychological, spiritual, and social needs of AYA with serious illness, their families and caregivers."
321,Independent Scientist Award (Parent K02 - Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-19-132,"State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Independent Scientist Award (K02) is to foster the development of outstanding scientists and enable them to expand their potential to make significant contributions to their field of research. The K02 award provides three to five years of salary support and ""protected time"" for newly independent scientists who can demonstrate the need for a period of intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers. Each independent scientist career award program must be tailored to meet the individual needs of the candidate. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing research that does not involve leading an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial. Applicants to this FOA are permitted to propose research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator. Applicants proposing a clinical trial or an ancillary clinical trial as lead investigator, should apply to the companion FOA (XXXXX)."
322,Independent Scientist Award (Parent K02 - Independent Clinical Trial Required),PA-19-131,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Independent Scientist Award (K02) is to foster the development of outstanding scientists and enable them to expand their potential to make significant contributions to their field of research. The K02 award provides three to five years of salary support and ""protected time"" for newly independent scientists who can demonstrate the need for a period of intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers. Each independent scientist career award program must be tailored to meet the individual needs of the candidate. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing to serve as the lead investigator of an independent clinical trial, a clinical trial feasibility study, or a separate ancillary clinical trial, as part of their research and career development. Applicants not planning an independent clinical trial, or proposing to gain research experience in a clinical trial led by another investigator, must apply to companion FOA (XXXX)."
323,Cancer Tissue Engineering Collaborative: Enabling Biomimetic Tissue-Engineered Technologies for Cancer Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-113,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) will support the development and characterization of state-of-the-art biomimetic tissue-engineered technologies for cancer research. Collaborative, multidisciplinary projects that engage the fields of regenerative medicine, tissue engineering, biomaterials, and bioengineering with cancer biology will be essential for generating novel experimental models that mimic cancer pathophysiology. The projects supported by this FOA will establish and collectively participate in the Cancer Tissue Engineering Collaborative (TEC) Research Program. The Cancer TEC Program will (1) catalyze the advancement of innovative, well characterized in vitro and ex vivo systems available for cancer research, (2) expand the breadth of these systems to several cancer types, and (3) promote the exploration of cancer phenomena with biomimetic tissue-engineered systems."
324,Improving Outcomes in Cancer Treatment-Related Cardiotoxicity (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-111,"For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages collaborative applications that will contribute to the identification and characterization of patients at risk of developing cancer treatment-related cardiotoxicity. The primary intent is to mitigate cardiovascular dysfunction while optimizing cancer outcomes. To accomplish this, methods that evaluate cardiovascular risk prior to treatment and integrate evidence-based cancer treatment regimens with cardiovascular screening, diagnostic, and/or management strategies are sought. Research applications should focus on mitigation/management of adverse effects associated with anti-cancer treatments including: cytotoxic chemotherapies, targeted agents, immunomodulatory therapies and radiation (that occur during cancer treatment and/or long-term survivorship) as defined by cardiac and/or vascular specific common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE)."
325,Improving Outcomes in Cancer Treatment-Related Cardiotoxicity (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-112,"For profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages collaborative applications that will contribute to the identification and characterization of patients at risk of developing cancer treatment-related cardiotoxicity. The primary intent is to mitigate cardiovascular dysfunction while optimizing cancer outcomes. To accomplish this, methods that evaluate cardiovascular risk prior to treatment and integrate evidence-based cancer treatment regimens with cardiovascular screening, diagnostic, and/or management strategies are sought. Research applications should focus on mitigation/management of adverse effects associated with anti-cancer treatments including: cytotoxic chemotherapies, targeted agents, immunomodulatory therapies and radiation (that occur during cancer treatment and/or long-term survivorship) as defined by cardiac and/or vascular specific common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE)."
326,Leveraging Health Information Technology (Health IT) to Address Minority Health and Health Disparities (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-093,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) seeks to support research that examines how health information technology adoption impacts minority health and health disparity populations in access to care, quality of care, patient engagement, and health outcomes."
327,Independent Scientist Award (Parent K02 - Independent Basic Experimental Studies with Humans Required),PA-19-085,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Independent Scientist Award (K02) is to foster the development of outstanding scientists and enable them to expand their potential to make significant contributions to their field of research. The K02 award provides three to five years of salary support and ""protected time"" for newly independent scientists who can demonstrate the need for a period of intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers. Each independent scientist career award program must be tailored to meet the individual needs of the candidate. This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is designed specifically for applicants proposing to lead basic science experimental studies involving humans, referred to in NOT-OD-18-212 as prospective basic science studies involving human participants.  These studies fall within the NIH definition of a clinical trial and also meet the definition of basic research.  Types of studies that should submit under this FOA include studies that prospectively assign human participants to conditions (i.e., experimentally manipulate independent variables) and that assess biomedical or behavioral outcomes in humans for the purpose of understanding the fundamental aspects of phenomena without specific application towards processes or products in mind. Studies conducted with specific applications toward processes or products in mind should submit under the companion PA-18-370."
328,Telomeres in Wellness and Disease: A Biobehavioral Approach  (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-073,"For profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research that examines the role of telomeres in wellness and disease, and to advance the incorporation of telomere studies into biobehavioral programs of research. A body of research has demonstrated the contribution of telomeres to health-related outcomes; however, additional studies are needed to achieve the full potential for incorporating telomere-guided approaches for maintaining wellness, reducing the risk and burden of disease, and for advancing symptom and self-management strategies."
329,Telomeres in Wellness and Disease: A Biobehavioral Approach (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-074,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research that examines the role of telomeres in wellness and disease, and to advance the incorporation of telomere studies into biobehavioral programs of research. A body of research has demonstrated the contribution of telomeres to health-related outcomes; however, additional studies are needed to achieve the full potential for incorporating telomere-guided approaches for maintaining wellness, reducing the risk and burden of disease, and for advancing symptom and self-management strategies."
330,Data Science Research: Personal Health Libraries for Consumers and Patients (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-072,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The National Library of Medicine seeks applications for novel informatics and data science approaches that can help individuals gather, manage and use data and information about their personal health. A goal of this program is to advance research and application by patients and the research community through broadly sharing the results via publication, and through open source mechanisms for data or resource sharing."
331,Mechanism for Time-Sensitive Drug Abuse Research (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-064,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsCounty governmentsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) will support pilot, feasibility or exploratory research in 5 priority areas in substance use epidemiology and health services, including: 1) responses to sudden and severe emerging drug issues (e.g. the ability to look into a large and sudden spike in opioid or synthetic cannabinoid use/overdoses in a particular community); 2) responses to emerging marijuana trends and topics related to the shifting policy landscape; 3) responses to unexpected and time-sensitive prescription drug abuse research opportunities (e.g., new state or local efforts); 4) responses to unexpected and time-sensitive medical system issues (e.g. opportunities to understand addiction services in the evolving health care system); and 5) responses to unexpected and time-sensitive criminal or juvenile justice opportunities (e.g. new system and/or structural level changes) that relate to drug abuse and access and provision of health care service. It should be clear that the knowledge gained from the proposed study is time-sensitive and that an expedited rapid review and funding are required in order for the scientific question to be answered (i.e. an imminent policy change will not allow for standard review and funding timeline)."
332,Strategies to Provide Culturally Tailored Palliative and End-of-Life Care for Seriously Ill American Indian and Alaska Native Individuals (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-057,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsState governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that will improve and increase the use of evidence-based interventions in end-of-life and palliative care (EOLPC) for American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) individuals with advanced illness and their families and communities.
333,Strategies to Provide Culturally Tailored Palliative and End-of-Life Care for Seriously Ill American Indian and Alaska Native Individuals (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-058,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that will improve and increase the use of evidence-based interventions in end-of-life and palliative care (EOLPC) for American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) individuals with advanced illness and their families and communities.
334,End-of-Life and Palliative Care Approaches to Advanced Signs and Symptoms (R21- Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-044,"State governmentsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate research to examine the multi-dimensional foundations, experiences and management of complex, advanced signs and symptoms at the end of life."
335,End-of-Life and Palliative Care Approaches to Advanced Signs and Symptoms (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-19-045,"City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate research to examine the multi-dimensional foundations, experiences and management of complex, advanced signs and symptoms at the end of life."
336,EHR Core Research,19-508,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The EHR Core Research program (ECR) invites proposals for fundamental research (basic research or use-inspired basic research) that advances knowledge in one or more of the three Research Tracks: Research on STEM Learning and Learning Environments, Research on Broadening Participation in STEM fields, and Research on STEM Workforce Development.


The ECR program places emphasis on the rigorous development of theory and accumulation of knowledge to inform efforts to address challenges in STEM interest, learning, and participation, for all groups and all ages in formal and informal settings. This emphasis includes research on advancing evaluative methodologies to support research efforts funded through ECR.


ECR supports a wide range of research activities. ECR seeks to fund fundamental research that could involve the collection of new qualitative or quantitative data, secondary analyses using extant datasets, or meta-analyses. In addition, ECR supports research to develop innovative research methods, metrics, and conceptual models to measure existing and emerging phenomena, and to test theories that inform core scientific questions about STEM education and learning. The three levels of funding should align with the maturity of the proposed work, the size and scope of the empirical effort, and the capacity of the team to conduct the proposed research: (1) Level I proposals: have a maximum award size of $500,000 and a maximum duration of 3 years; (2) Level II proposals have a maximum award size of $1,500,000 and a maximum duration of3 years; (3) Level III proposals have a maximum award size of $2,500,000 and a maximum duration of 5 years."
337,BRAIN Initiative: Research on the Ethical Implications of Advancements in Neurotechnology and Brain Science (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-MH-19-400,"Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA), in support of the NIH Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, is one of several FOAs aimed at supporting transformative discoveries that will lead to breakthroughs in understanding human brain function. Guided by the long-term scientific plan, BRAIN 2025: A Scientific Vision, this FOA specifically seeks to support efforts addressing core ethical issues associated with research focused on the human brain and resulting from emerging technologies and advancements supported by the BRAIN Initiative. The hope is that efforts supported under this FOA might be both complementary and integrative with the transformative, breakthrough neuroscience discoveries supported through the BRAIN Initiative."
338,Addressing Caregiver Symptoms through Technological Tools (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-023,"Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Funding Opportunity announcement is to encourage grant applications from the scientific community that develop and test tools to address symptoms in caregivers.  The key to this announcement is the focus on the caregiver, regardless of patient symptoms or conditions. Research is needed to enhance symptom recognition and assessment in caregivers, and to promote technological strategies to alleviate distress in caregiver symptoms. These studies are needed to advance the science related to caregiver experience of symptoms, caregiving contexts that promote these symptoms, and viable tools to address the symptoms experienced by caregivers."
339,Addressing Caregiver Symptoms through Technological Tools (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-19-024,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Funding Opportunity announcement is to encourage grant applications from the scientific community that develop and test tools to address symptoms in caregivers.  The key to this announcement is the focus on the caregiver, regardless of patient symptoms or conditions. Research is needed to enhance symptom recognition and assessment in caregivers, and to promote technological strategies to alleviate distress in caregiver symptoms. These studies are needed to advance the science related to caregiver experience of symptoms, caregiving contexts that promote these symptoms, and viable tools to address the symptoms experienced by caregivers."
340,Pre-application: Opportunities for Collaborative Research at the NIH Clinical Center (X02 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-950,"Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The goal of this program is to support collaborative translational research projects aligned with NIH efforts to enhance the translation of basic biological discoveries into clinical applications that improve health.  It encourages high quality science demonstrating the potential to result in understanding an important disease process or lead to new therapeutic interventions, diagnostics, or prevention strategies within the research interests and priorities of the participating NIH Institutes/Centers (ICs)."
341,Mechanisms of Disparities in Etiology and Outcomes of Lung Cancer in the U.S.: The Role of Risk and Protective Factors (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-019,"Special district governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,This initiative will support exploratory and developmental multidisciplinary research to understand the underlying causal factors and mechanisms that result in lung cancer disparities in U.S. health disparity populations.
342,Mechanisms of Disparities in Etiology and Outcomes of Lung Cancer in the U.S.: The Role of Risk and Protective Factors (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-19-018,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,This initiative will support multidisciplinary research to understand the underlying causal factors and mechanisms that result in lung cancer disparities in U.S. health disparity populations.
343,Urgent Competitive Revision to Existing NIH Grants and Cooperative Agreements (Urgent Supplement - Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-935,"Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) hereby notify Principal Investigators holding specific types of NIH research grants, listed in the full Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) that funds may be available for competitive revisions to meet immediate needs to help address a specific public health crisis in a timely manner, but that were unforeseen when the new or renewal application or grant progress report for non-competing continuation support was submitted.  Applications for Urgent Competitive Revisions will be routed directly to the NIH awarding component listed on the NoA of the most recent parent award."
344,NIH Blueprint Diversity Specialized Predoctoral to Postdoctoral Advancement in Neuroscience (D-SPAN) Award (F99/K00),RFA-NS-19-011,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NIH Blueprint Diversity Specialized Predoctoral to Postdoctoral Advancement in Neuroscience (D-SPAN) Award is to support a defined pathway across career stages for outstanding graduate students who are from backgrounds that are nationally underrepresented in neuroscience research. This two-phase award will facilitate completion of the doctoral dissertation and transition of talented graduate students to strong neuroscience research postdoctoral positions, and will provide career development opportunities relevant to their long-term career goal of becoming independent neuroscience researchers."
345,Applying a Biopsychosocial Perspective to Self-Management of Chronic Pain (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-945,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the Funding Opportunity announcement is to encourage grant applications from the scientific community on applying a biopsychosocial perspective to self-management of chronic pain.
346,Biobehavioral Basis of Chronic Pain (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-943,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Funding Opportunity Announcement is to encourage grant applications from the scientific community on the biobehavioral basis of chronic pain.  The focus encompasses the individual phenotype, genotype, and other omic-type assessments and the associated sensory and emotional components that underpin the individuals chronic pain experience. Research relating biology and behavior is needed to better define the individual-specific burden of chronic pain and to better understand the mechanisms underlying differences in pain experiences among individuals afflicted with the same chronic illness."
347,Applying a Biopsychosocial Perspective to Self-Management of Chronic Pain (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-946,"City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the Funding Opportunity announcement is to encourage grant applications from the scientific community on applying a biopsychosocial perspective to self-management of chronic pain.
348,Biobehavioral Basis of Chronic Pain (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-944,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the Funding Opportunity Announcement is to encourage grant applications from the scientific community on the biobehavioral basis of chronic pain.  The focus encompasses the individual phenotype, genotype, and other omic-type assessments and the associated sensory and emotional components that underpin the individuals chronic pain experience. Research relating biology and behavior is needed to better define the individual-specific burden of chronic pain and to better understand the mechanisms underlying differences in pain experiences among individuals afflicted with the same chronic illness."
349,Increasing Uptake of Evidence-Based Screening in Diverse Adult Populations (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-932,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications that seek to understand strategies to reduce disparities in the uptake of evidence-based screening (e.g. screening recommendations proven to be effective based on rigorous systematic review of scientific evidence by authoritative committees) across the adult lifespan.  In this program announcement, screening is defined as a preventive service focused on detection of an undiagnosed disease in asymptomatic populations. Research supported by this initiative should enhance the screening process related to use: (1) in diverse populations, (2) in diverse clinical and community settings, and/or (3) with traditional, non-traditional and/or allied health care providers."
350,AFRL/RXC Structural Materials Open BAA,FA8650-18-S-5010,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force -- Research Lab,"  Air Force Research Laboratory, Materials & Manufacturing Directorate, Structural Materials Division, AFRL/RXC, is soliciting white papers and potentially technical and cost proposals under this announcement that support the needs of its Structural Materials and Applications mission. Structural Materials technologies that range from materials and scientific discovery through technology development and transition are of interest. Descriptors of Materials and Manufacturing Directorate technology interests are presented in two contexts in the Statement of Objectives (BAA Attachment 1); that of structural materials science and engineering academic “competencies,” and that of Air Force application area needs. "
351,AIDS-Science Track Award for Research Transition (R03 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-916,"Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) seeks to facilitate the entry of both newly independent and early career investigators to the area of drug use and use disorder research and HIV/AIDS.  This FOA, AIDS-Science Track Award for Research Transition (A-START), encourages Small Research Grant (R03) applications to support research projects on drug misuse and/or use disorder and HIV/AIDS that can be carried out in a short period of time with limited resources.  This FOA welcomes applications integrating drug misuse and/or use disorder and HIV/AIDS across all areas of research supported by NIDA."
352,Imaging - Science Track Award for Research Transition (I/START) (R03 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-918,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages Small Research Grant (R03) applications to facilitate the entry of investigators to the area of neuroimaging, including both new investigators and established investigators seeking to adopt neuroimaging methodologies in their research programs, to enable the conduct of small ""proof of concept"" studies. The R03 is intended to support research projects that can be carried out in a short period of time with limited resources."
353,HIV/AIDS High Priority Drug Abuse Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAS-18-915,"State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,The National Institutes of Health has recently announced the HIV/AIDS research priorities for the next three to five years https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-15-137.html. The goal of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to stimulate high priority research relevant to drug misuse and HIV/AIDS.
354,Developing the Therapeutic Potential of the Endocannabinoid System for Pain Treatment (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-917,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to support projects that will elucidate the therapeutic potential of the cannabinoids and endocannabinoid system in the development of mechanism-based therapies for pain.
355,Crosscutting Activities in Materials Research,PD-18-7222,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Crosscutting Activities in Materials Research (XC) coordinates and supports crosscutting activities within the Division of Materials Research (DMR) and more broadly across NSF.


The emphasis within XC is diversity and inclusion, international cooperation, and education (including experiential learning at REU/RET Sites). Additionally, activities that broadly engage the community, such as summer schools, institutes, workshops, and conferences that do not fit within just one or two programs in the Division of Materials Research, may be supported by XC.If preparing a workshop proposal, follow the Special Guidelines for Conference Proposals outlined in the Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG). Occasionally projects crossing several programs in DMR are shifted to XC or co-funded by XC. The goal is to bring greater visibility to these projects through DMR’s XC website.


Proposals are welcome that do not fit elsewhere at NSF that are also highly relevant for the materials research and education community. Some XC activities are co-funded with other NSF units. XC does not handle traditional research proposals suitable for submission to topical or other programs in DMR. For this reason, the XC Team welcomes inquiries that include a draft of one-page NSF summary, or a shorter write-up. It is highly recommended that you contact one of the Program Directors for XC prior to submission of a full proposal exceeding $50,000.


Crosscutting Activities in Materials Research (XC) replaced the Office of Special Programs in Materials Research (OSP) in 2016.


Diversity:


Activitiesthat focus on broadening participation of underrepresented groups and/or diversity and inclusion are supported.
Supplements(e.g., CLB, AGEP-GRS, MPS-GRSV and ROAs) are handled by the cognizantProgram Director of the original award. See the Related Publications section below for more information.
XC supports Facilitation Awards for Scientists and Engineers with Disabilities (see Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide, Chapter II.E.6 for details) https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/policydocs/pappg18_1/pappg_2.jsp#IIE6


International:


In2016 a Dear Colleague Letter outlining collaborative projectswith Israel (BSF)was issued; it remains active until archived.
Submissionof full proposals with an international component may be made to thedisciplinary programs (but not to XC directly).
Supplementsare handled by the cognizant Program Director of the original award.
Discontinuedin 2014: The previous International Materials Institutes (IMI)and Materials World Network (MWN) programs are no longer supported.


Education:


Innovativeand creative ideas in education (e.g., materials science and/or engineering, solid state and materials chemistry, condensed matterphysics, integrated computational materials science/engineering, ormaterials data science/analytics) that do not have a forum elsewhere at NSFare of interest.
XC encourages outreach and/or materials education proposals targeting underserved populations such as K-12students in rural communities and those designed to increase public scientific literacy.


Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)/ Research Experiences for Teachers (RET): reu.dmr@nsf.gov


XCcoordinates the REU and RET Sites activities within DMR. See theREU Site Solicitationfor deadlines and additional program information.
REU/RET supplements to research proposals are handled by the cognizant ProgramDirector of the original award.
"
356,Feasibility Studies to Build Collaborative Partnerships in Cancer Research (P20 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-911,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) invites P20 planning grant applications for  developing collaborative partnership between institutions serving underserved health disparity populations and underrepresented students (ISUPS) and NCI- designated Cancer Centers (or Cancer Centers with highly integrated cancer research programs). This FOA is designed to facilitate the planning and execution of focused collaborations in cancer-related research, research experience, and research education. A major goal of the NCI P20 partnership programs is to provide support for investigators at ISUPS and Cancer Centers to conduct cancer research pilot projects and cancer research education program. The purpose of the pilot projects and education program is to allow awardees to obtain preliminary data that will lead to competitive grant applications for funding by the NIH/NCI and/or other Federal/Non-Federal agencies."
357,Virtual Consortium for Translational/Transdisciplinary Environmental Research (ViCTER) (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),RFA-ES-18-007,"State governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the updated ViCTER program is to use the R01 mechanism to foster and promote early-stage transdisciplinary collaborations and/or translational research efforts among fundamental (technology and mechanism oriented), clinical (patient-oriented) and population-based researchers in the environmental health field. The newly established collaborative teams will come together in common interest to investigate potential linkages between human health and one or more environmental stressor(s). The ViCTER program is intended to support innovative high-risk, high-reward cross-disciplinary and/or translational research projects that are more difficult to achieve in a typical R01 application. Collaboration among investigators at different institutions through a virtual consortium arrangement are encouraged."
358,Advancing Translational and Clinical Probiotic/Prebiotic and Human Microbiome Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-902,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is twofold: 1. to accelerate translational and clinical Phase I and II a/b safety and efficacy studies for substantiating measurable functional benefits of probiotic/prebiotic components and/or their combinations; and; 2. to understand the underlying mechanisms of their action(s), and variability in responses to these interventions. This FOA calls for interdisciplinary collaborations across scientific disciplines engaged in microbiome and pro/prebiotic research including, but not limited to: nutritional science, microbiology, virology, microecology and microbiome, genomics, immunology, computational biology, chemistry, bioengineering, as well as integration of omics and computational approaches in DNA technologies. This FOA will not support phase III clinical trials."
359,"Chronic, Non-Communicable Diseases and Disorders Across the Lifespan: Fogarty International Research Training Award (NCD-LIFESPAN) (D43)(Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-18-901,"County governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages applications for the Chronic, Non-Communicable Diseases and Disorders Across the Lifespan: Fogarty International Research Training Award (NCD-LIFESPAN) D43 program for institutional research training programs in low-and middle-income countries (LMICs, as defined by the World Bank classification system). Applications may be for collaborations between institutions in the U.S and an eligible LMIC or may involve just LMIC institutions if there is a previous track record of externally funded research and/or research training programs by the lead LMIC institution. The proposed institutional research training program is expected to sustainably strengthen the NCD research capacity of the LMIC institutions, and to train in-country experts to develop and conduct research on NCDs across the lifespan, with the long-range goal of developing and implementing evidence-based interventions relevant to their countries. The main focus of research training covered in the application must be relevant to the interests of at least one of the participating NIH ICs as stated by each in this FOA. Other NCD topics may be included as secondary and complementary focus areas."
360,Physical Activity and Weight Control Interventions Among Cancer Survivors: Effects on Biomarkers of Prognosis and Survival (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-892,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesState governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages transdisciplinary and translational research that will identify the specific biological or biobehavioral pathways through which physical activity and/or weight control (either weight loss or avoidance of weight gain) may affect cancer prognosis and survival. Research applications should test the effects of physical activity, alone or in combination with weight control (either weight loss or avoidance of weight gain), on biomarkers of cancer prognosis among cancer survivors identified by previous animal or observational research on established biomarkers other than insulin/glucose metabolism, especially those obtained from tumor tissue sourced from repeat biopsies where available. Because many cancer survivor populations will not experience recurrence but will die of comorbid diseases or may experience early effects of aging, inclusion of biomarkers of comorbid diseases (e.g., cardiovascular disease) and of the aging process are also sought. Applications should use experimental designs (e.g., randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs), fractional factorial designs), and will include transdisciplinary approaches that bring together behavioral intervention expertise, cancer biology, and other basic and clinical science disciplines relevant to the pathways being studied."
361,Physical Activity and Weight Control Interventions Among Cancer Survivors: Effects on Biomarkers of Prognosis and Survival (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-893,"City or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages transdisciplinary and translational research that will identify the specific biological or biobehavioral pathways through which physical activity and/or weight control (either weight loss or avoidance of weight gain) may affect cancer prognosis and survival. Research applications should test the effects of physical activity, alone or in combination with weight control (either weight loss or avoidance of weight gain), on biomarkers of cancer prognosis among cancer survivors identified by previous animal or observational research on established biomarkers other than insulin/glucose metabolism, especially those obtained from tumor tissue sourced from repeat biopsies where available. Because many cancer survivor populations will not experience recurrence but will die of comorbid diseases or may experience early effects of aging, inclusion of biomarkers of comorbid diseases (e.g., cardiovascular disease) and of the aging process are also sought. Applications should use experimental designs (e.g., randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs), fractional factorial designs), and will include transdisciplinary approaches that bring together behavioral intervention expertise, cancer biology, and other basic and clinical science disciplines relevant to the pathways being studied."
362,WINDOWS ON THE UNIVERSE: THE ERA OF MULTI-MESSENGER ASTROPHYSICS,PD-18-5115,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Universe is the ultimate laboratory, and we can now probe it as never before through several powerful and diverse windows – electromagnetic waves, high-energy particles, and gravitational waves. Each of these windows provides a different view. Together they reveal a detailed picture of the Universe that will allow us to study matter, energy, and the cosmos in fundamentally new ways.


The NSF's Big Idea “Windows on the Universe” is implemented through this WoU-MMA program. WoU-MMA identifies three categories of messengers - electromagnetic waves, high-energy particles including neutrinos and cosmic rays, and gravitational waves. The goals of WoU-MMA are to build the capabilities and accelerate the synergy and interoperability of the three messengers to realize integrated, multi-messenger astrophysical explorations of the Universe.


The WoU-MMA program welcomes proposals in any area of research supported through the participating divisions that address at least one of the following criteria:


Coordination: Hardware, software, or other infrastructure to coordinate observations involving more than one messenger.
Observations: Observations of astrophysical objects or phenomena that are potentially sources of more than one messenger, including the use of existing observatories, experiments, and data archives, as well as the development and construction of new capabilities for advancing multi-messenger astrophysics.
Interpretation: Theory, experiment, simulations and other activities to understand or interpret observations of astrophysical objects that are sources of more than onemessenger.





The WoU-MMA program focuses on three broad areas of investment:


Enhancing and accelerating the theoretical, computational, and observational activities within the scientific community: Proposals for support of the scientific community to build the observational and analysis capabilities in each of the three window areas, integrate the different research communities to develop full interoperability between the three windows, and develop a new workforce that is skilled in this new paradigm. These efforts should expand community activities that advance the goals and accelerate progress in multi-messenger astrophysics. Proposals should be submitted to the relevant programs listed below. These include the Astronomy and Astrophysics Postdoctoral Fellowships (AAPF) program, and the Astronomy and Astrophysics Research Grants (AAG) programs within AST, and all PHY and OPP programs listed below.


Building dedicated instrumentation and capabilities: Proposals for the construction of experiments and instrumentation or creation of cyberinfrastructure that will make critical contributions to the multi-messenger research infrastructure by enabling new capabilities in energy range or sky coverage, improved sensitivity, or new experimental or computational capabilities. Proposals should be submitted to one or more of the relevant programs listed below including the Advanced Technologies and Instrumentation (ATI) program in AST. Proposals for support of midscale-range projects that are primarily focused on the electromagnetic spectrum within the purview of AST should be submitted to the MSIP program. Proposals for support of midscale-range projects that are primarily focused on high-energy particles, gravitational waves or other WoU-MMA science within the purview of PHY should be submitted to the relevant individual programs within PHY. Proposals that include facilities located in Antarctica should be submitted to OPP's Antarctic Astrophysics and Geospace Sciences (AAGS) program or should list AAGS as a secondary program if submitted to AST or PHY.


Exploiting current facilities and developing the next generation of observatories: Proposals for support of enhanced infrastructure and modest upgrades that will enable the full utilization of the current generation of multi-messenger facilities, and proposals requesting support for the planning and development for the next generation of observatories to accelerate progress to realize significantly greater capabilities and extend our scientific reach. Proposals should be submitted to the relevant programs listed below. Major NSF Facilities may also submit appropriate supplement proposals to their cooperative agreements after consulting with their cognizant program officer. (Such Facilities are listed, for example, at this url: https://www.nsf.gov/about/budget/fy2020/pdf/40a_fy2020.pdf)


PIs considering submitting proposals requesting more than $3M are strongly encouraged to contact the program directors for the relevant participating programs in advance.


The WoU-MMA program is not intended to replace existing programs that make awards that involve experimental or theoretical efforts related to each of the three messengers. Rather, the WoU-MMA program is meant to fund awards that have significant components of multi-messenger astrophysics. Priority will be given to proposals for dedicated efforts that significantly advance the WoU-MMA goals rather than proposals that maintain ongoing activities. A proposal that is requesting consideration within the context of WoU-MMA should begin the title with the identifying acronym ""WoU-MMA:"" PIs should ask for consideration and review as a WoU-MMA proposal only if the proposal addresses at least one of the criteria listed above. Proposals marked for consideration by the WoU-MMA program that do not address at least one of these criteria will be reviewed solely within the participating program(s) to which they were submitted. Supplement requests to existing awards within a program that address one of the above criteria will also be considered."
363,BROAD AGENCY ANNOUNCEMENT (BAA) for Extramural Biomedical Research and Development,W81XWH-18-S-SOC1,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,The FY 18 Broad Agency Announcement for Extramural Biomedical Research and Development- W81XWH-18-S-SOC1-0002
364,Astronomy and Astrophysics Research Grants,18-575,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Astronomy and Astrophysics Research Grants (AAG) Program is an inclusive and flexible funding opportunity to support research in the astronomical sciences. The Program provides individual investigator and collaborative research grants for observational, theoretical, laboratory, and archival data studies in astronomy and astrophysics. The Program also considers proposals for projects and tools that enable or enhance astronomical research. Proposals may span multiple disciplines and/or areas of study and may utilize multiple techniques."
365,Advanced Technologies and Instrumentation,18-576,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Advanced Technologies and Instrumentation (ATI) program provides individual investigator and collaborative research grants for development of new technologies and instrumentation for astronomy and astrophysics.The program supports overarching science objectives of the Division of Astronomical Sciences.Development of innovative, potentially transformative technologies are encouraged, even at high technical risk.Supported categories include but are not limited to:advanced technology development or concept feasibility studies and specialized instrumentation to enable new observations that are difficult or impossible to obtain with existing means.Proposals may include hardware and/or software development and/or analysis to enable new types of astronomical observations.The program encourages making products of research available to the public.It also encourages community coordination of technology and instrumentation development efforts via an annual Principal Investigators meeting."
366,Early Stage Clinical Trials for the Spectrum of Alzheimers Disease and Age-related Cognitive Decline (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-877,"State governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) invites applications that propose to develop and implement early stage (Phase I or II) clinical trials of promising pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions in individuals with age-related cognitive decline and in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) across the spectrum from pre-symptomatic to more severe stages of disease, as well as to stimulate studies to enhance trial design and methods."
367,Advancing Mechanistic Probiotic/Prebiotic and Human Microbiome Research (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-876,"City or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is twofold: (1) to stimulate basic and mechanistic science that facilitates the development of effective probiotics or pre-/probiotic combinations of relevance to human health and disease; and (2) determine biological outcomes for the evaluation of efficacy of pre/probiotics in appropriate test systems and animal models. This FOA encourages basic and mechanistic studies using in vitro, in vivo, ex vivo, and in silico models that focus on prebiotic/probiotic strain selectivity, interaction, and function. It will also encourage inter and multidisciplinary collaborations among scientists in a wide range of disciplines including nutritional science, immunology, microbiomics, genomics, other '-omic' sciences, biotechnology, and bioinformatics."
368,Modular R01s in Cancer Control and Population Sciences (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-869,"State governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) invites applications for research in cancer control and population sciences. The overarching goal is to provide support to promote research efforts on novel scientific ideas that have the potential to substantially advance cancer research in statistical and analytic methods, epidemiology, cancer survivorship, cancer-related behaviors and behavioral interventions, health care delivery, and implementation science."
369,Alcohol and Other Drug Interactions:  Unintentional Injuries and Overdoses:  Epidemiology and Prevention (R21 - Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-862,"Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this funding announcement (FOA) issued by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is to encourage research grant applications that explore whether and how alcohol and other illicit drugs or illicitly used prescription drugs interact to contribute to unintentional injuries and poisonings and how to prevent and/or reduce simultaneous use of alcohol or drugs singly or in combination.
370,Alcohol and Other Drug Interactions:  Unintentional Injuries and Overdoses:  Epidemiology and Prevention (R03 - Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-861,"Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this funding announcement (FOA) issued by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is to encourage research grant applications that explore whether and how alcohol and other illicit drugs or illicitly used prescription drugs interact to contribute to unintentional injuries and poisonings and how to prevent and/or reduce simultaneous use of alcohol or drugs singly or in combination.
371,BRAIN Initiative: Integration and Analysis of BRAIN Initiative Data (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-MH-19-147,"Small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) solicits applications to develop informatics tools for analyzing, visualizing, and integrating data related to the BRAIN Initiative or to enhance our understanding of the brain."
372,Diet and Physical Activity Assessment Methodology (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-856,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages innovative research to enhance the quality of measurements of dietary intake and physical activity. Applications submitted to this FOA may include development of: novel assessment approaches; better methods to evaluate instruments; assessment tools for culturally diverse populations or various age groups, including children and older adults; improved technology or applications of existing technology; statistical methods/modeling to improve assessment and/or to correct for measurement errors or biases; methods to investigate the multidimensionality of diet and physical activity behavior through pattern analysis; or integrated measurement of diet and physical activity along with the environmental context of such behaviors."
373,Diet and Physical Activity Assessment Methodology (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-857,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages innovative research to enhance the quality of measurements of dietary intake and physical activity. Applications submitted to this FOA may include development of: novel assessment approaches; better methods to evaluate instruments; assessment tools for culturally diverse populations or various age groups, including children and older adults; improved technology or applications of existing technology; statistical methods/modeling to improve assessment and/or to correct for measurement errors or biases; methods to investigate the multidimensionality of diet and physical activity behavior through pattern analysis; or integrated measurement of diet and physical activity along with the environmental context of such behaviors."
374,Time-Sensitive Obesity Policy and Program Evaluation (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-854,"State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) establishes an accelerated review/award process to support time-sensitive research to evaluate a new policy or program that is likely to influence obesity related behaviors (e.g., dietary intake, physical activity, or sedentary behavior) and/or weight outcomes in an effort to prevent or reduce obesity.  This FOA is intended to support research where opportunities for empirical study are, by their very nature, only available through expedited review and funding.  All applications to this FOA must demonstrate that the evaluation of an obesity related policy and /or program offers an uncommon and scientifically compelling research opportunity that will only be available if the research is initiated with minimum delay.  For these reasons, applications in response to this time-sensitive FOA are not eligible for re-submission.  It is intended that eligible applications selected for funding will be awarded within 4 months of the application due date.  However, administrative requirements and other unforeseen circumstances may delay issuance dates beyond that timeline."
375,Advanced Manufacturing,PD-19-088Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Advanced Manufacturing (AM) program supports the fundamental research needed to revitalize American manufacturing to grow the national prosperity and workforce, and to reshape our strategic industries. The AM program accelerates advances in manufacturing technologies with emphasis on multidisciplinary research that fundamentally alters and transforms manufacturing capabilities, methods and practices. Advanced manufacturing research proposals should address issues related to national prosperity and security, and advancing knowledge to sustain global leadership.


Areas of research, for example, include manufacturing systems; materials processing; manufacturing machines; methodologies; and manufacturing across the length scales. Researchers working in the areas of cybermanufacturing systems, manufacturing machines and equipment, materials engineering and processing, and nanomanufacturing are encouraged to transcend and cross domain boundaries. Interdisciplinary, convergent proposals are welcome that bring manufacturing to new application areas, and that incorporate challenges and approaches outside the customary manufacturing portfolio to broaden the impact of America’s advanced manufacturing research.


Proposals of all sizes will therefore be considered as justified by the project description. Investigators are encouraged to discuss their ideas with AM program directors well in advance of submission at AdvancedManufacturing@nsf.gov."
376,Prevention Research in Mid-Life Adults (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-849,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) seeks to stimulate research on mid-life adults (those 50 to 64 years of age) that can inform efforts to optimize health and wellness as individuals age and prevent illness and disability in later years.
377,Prevention Research in Mid-Life Adults (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-850,"Small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) seeks to stimulate research on mid-life adults (those 50 to 64 years of age) that can inform efforts to optimize health and wellness as individuals age and prevent illness and disability in later years.
378,"Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS): Population, Clinical and Applied Prevention Research (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-18-847,"Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to support studies on electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) that examine population-based, clinical and applied prevention of disease, including etiology of use, epidemiology of use, potential risks, benefits and impacts on other tobacco use behavior among different populations."
379,Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS): Basic Mechanisms of Health Effects (R21 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-846,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to support basic research examining how Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS) aerosols affect normal and disease states relevant to human cells, tissues and organs."
380,Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS): Basic Mechanisms of Health Effects (R01 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-845,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to support basic research examining how Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS) aerosols affect normal and disease states relevant to human cells, tissues and organs."
381,"Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS): Population, Clinical and Applied Prevention Research (R21 - Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-18-848,"County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement is to support studies on electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) that examine population-based, clinical and applied prevention of disease, including etiology of use, epidemiology of use, potential risks, benefits and impacts on other tobacco use behavior among different populations."
382,"Communications, Circuits, and Sensing-Systems",PD-18-7564,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Communications, Circuits, and Sensing-Systems (CCSS) Program supports innovative research in circuit and system hardware and signal processing techniques. CCSS also supports system and network architectures for communications and sensing to enable the next-generation cyber-physical systems (CPS) that leverage computation, communication, and sensing integrated with physical domains. CCSS invests in micro- and nano-electromechanical systems (MEMS/NEMS), physical, chemical, and biological sensing systems, neurotechnologies, and communication & sensing circuits and systems. The goal is to create new complex and hybrid systems ranging from nano- to macro-scale with innovative engineering principles and solutions for a variety of applications including but not limited to healthcare, medicine, environmental and biological monitoring, communications, disaster mitigation, homeland security, intelligent transportation, manufacturing, energy, and smart buildings. CCSS encourages research proposals based on emerging technologies and applications for communications and sensing such as high-speed communications of terabits per second and beyond, sensing and imaging covering microwave to terahertz frequencies, personalized health monitoring and assistance, secured wireless connectivity and sensing for the Internet of Things, and dynamic-data-enabled autonomous systems through real-time sensing and learning.


Areas managed by CCSS Program Directors (please contact Program Directors listed in the CCSS staff directory for areas of interest):


RF Circuits and Antennas for Communications and Sensing


RF Communications and Sensing Technologies from kHz to THz
Antennas and Wave Propagation for Communications and Sensing
Circuits and Systems for Secured Communications and Sensing
Trusted Microelectronic Circuits
RF Biomedical Applications and Remote Sensing
Bio-mimetic Circuits and Systems
Dynamic-data-enabled Reconfigurable RF Subsystems through Sensing and Machine Learning
Wireless Energy Transfer and RF Energy Harvesting


Communication Systems and Signal Processing


Wireless, Optical, and Hybrid Communications and Networking
Full-duplex, massive MIMO, mm-Wave, and THz communications
Spectrum Access and Sharing
Integrated Sensing, Communication, and Computational Systems
Signal Processing, image processing, and Compressive Sampling
Cyber Physical Systems and Hardware-controlled Secured Communications
Dynamic-data-enabled Communication Systems through Sensing and Machine Learning
Quantum Communication Systems


Dynamic Bio-Sensing Systems


Micro, Nano, and Bio Systems (MEMS/NEMS)
Chemical, Biological, and Physical Diagnostics
Sensors, Actuators, and Electronic Interfaces
Ultra-Low Power Wearable and Implantable Sensing Systems
Dynamic-data-enabled Reconfigurable Sensing Systems
Personalized Health Monitoring Systems through Sensing and Machine Learning
Neuroengineering and Brain-Inspired Concepts and Designs
"
383,"Electronics, Photonics and Magnetic Devices",PD-18-1517,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"TheElectronics, Photonics and Magnetic Devices (EPMD) Programsupports innovative research on novel devices based on the principles of electronics, optics and photonics, optoelectronics, magnetics, opto- and electromechanics, electromagnetics, and related physical phenomena. EPMD’s goal is to advance the frontiers of micro-, nano- and quantum-based devices operating within the electromagnetic spectrum and contributing to a broad range of application domains including information and communications, imaging and sensing, healthcare, Internet of Things, energy, infrastructure, and manufacturing. The program encourages research based on emerging technologies for miniaturization, integration, and energy efficiency as well as novel material-based devices with new functionalities, improved efficiency, flexibility, tunability, wearability, and enhanced reliability.


Areas managed by Program Directors (please contact Program Directors listed in the EPMD staff directory for areas of interest):


Electronic Devices


Nanoelectronics
Wide/Extreme- and Narrow-Bandgap, Semiconductor Devices
Devices with New Functionalities based on Material-Device Interactions and Reliability
Device-Related Electromagnetic Effects, Propagationand Scattering
Microwave/mm-Wave/THz Devices
Flexible, Printed Electronics
Carbon-based Electronics
Thermoelectric and Ferroelectric Devices


Photonic Devices


Advanced Optical Emitters and Photodetectors, from Extreme UV to THz
Single-Photon Quantum Devices
Nonlinear and Ultrafast Photonics
Nanophotonics and Photonic Integration
Optical Imaging and Sensing Techniques
Opto-Mechanical Nanodevices
Optical Communication Components


Magnetic Devices


Biomagnetic Devices
Nanomagnetic and Quantum Devices
Spin Electronics for Next Generation of Logic and Memories


Cross-Cutting


2D Material Devices and Circuits
Devices based on Paper Electronics
Bioelectronic Devices
Photovoltaic and Energy Harvesting Devices
Metamaterial and Plasmonic-Based Devices
Sensor Device Technologies
"
384,Global Brain and Nervous System Disorders Research Across the Lifespan (R01 Clinical Trials Optional),PAR-18-835,"For profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages grant applications for the conduct of innovative, collaborative research projects between U.S. and low- and middle-income country (LMIC) scientists, on brain and other nervous system function and disorders throughout life, relevant to LMICs (including neurological, mental, behavioral, alcohol and substance use disorders and spanning the full range of science from basic to implementation research). Scientists in upper middle-income LMICs (UMICs) are also eligible to partner directly with scientists at other LMIC institutions with or without out a US partner. Income categories are defined by the World Bank at http://data.worldbank.org/about/country-classifications/country-and-lending-groups."
385,Global Brain and Nervous System Disorders Research Across the Lifespan (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-836,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages exploratory/developmental research grant applications, proposing the development of innovative, collaborative research projects on brain and other nervous system function and disorders throughout life, relevant to low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Research on neurological, mental, behavioral, alcohol and substance use disorders may span the full range of science from basic to implementation research. Scientists in the United States (U.S.) or upper-middle income countries (UMICs) are eligible to partner with scientists in LMIC institutions. Scientists in upper middle-income LMICs (UMICs) are also eligible to partner directly with scientists at other LMIC institutions with or without out a US partner.  Income categories used are as defined by the World Bank at http://data.worldbank.org/about/country-classifications/country-and-lending-groups. These grants are expected to foster the development of more comprehensive research programs that contribute to the long-term goals of building sustainable research capacity in LMICs to address nervous system development, function and impairment throughout life and to lead to diagnostics, prevention, treatment and implementation strategies. The proposed work may also contribute to developing a base for research networking and evidence-based policy beyond the specific research project."
386,The Role of Epitranscriptomics in Development and Disease (R01 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-830,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage applications from the scientific community to support outstanding research in the area of epitranscriptomics, i.e., the chemical modifications of RNA.  Evidence is accumulating that RNA modifications regulate the function of both coding and noncoding RNAs, suggesting that these modifications are involved in both development, and in health and disease.  Yet the extent and types of these RNA modifications as well as their roles in particular biological processes remain either poorly understood or not known.  The goal of the FOA is to promote research into the role of RNA chemical modifications in the initiation and progression of various developmental processes and disease states and conditions relevant to the scientific mission of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), the National Cancer Institute (NCI), and the National Eye Institute (NEI)."
387,"Dynamics, Control and Systems Diagnostics",PD-19-7569,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Dynamics, Control and Systems Diagnostics (DCSD) program supports fundamental research on the analysis, measurement, monitoring and control of dynamic systems. The program promotes innovation in the following areas:


Modeling: creation of new mathematical frameworks to apply tools of dynamics to physical systems
Analysis: discovery and exploration of structure in dynamic behavior
Diagnostics: dynamic methods that infer system properties from observations
Control: methods that produce desired dynamic behavior


Proposals submitted to the DCSD program should clearly identify, articulate and motivate innovative components in one or more of the foundational areas above.

Furthermore, proposals should be aligned with the disciplinary thrusts of the CMMI division. To ensure that a project is appropriate for the DCSD program, PIs are very strongly encouraged to contact DCSD Program Directors prior to the full submission.

Innovative research that primarily concerns electromagnetic or chemical phenomena should be directed to the ECCS or CBET divisions. The DCSD Program does not fund fundamental research relating to sensing modalities or sensor development. Proposals offering fundamental research on sensing modalities should be submitted to the Communications, Circuits and Sensing Systems (CCSS) program or the Electronics, Photonics, and Magnetic Devices (EPMD) program in the ECCS Division."
388,Operations Engineering,PD-19-006Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Operations Engineering (OE) program supports fundamental research on advanced analytical methods for improving operations in complex decision-driven environments. Analytical methods include, but are not limited to, deterministic and stochastic modeling, optimization, decision and risk analysis, data science, and simulation. Methodological research is highly encouraged but must be motivated by problems that have potential for high impact in engineering applications. Application domains of particular interest to the program arise in commercial enterprises (e.g., production/manufacturing systems and distribution of goods, delivery of services), the public sector/government (e.g., public safety and security), and public/private partnerships (e.g., health care, environment and energy). The program also welcomes operations research in new and emerging domains and addressing systemic societal or technological problems. The OE program particularly values cross-disciplinary proposals that leverage application-specific expertise with strong quantitative analysis in a decision-making context. Proposals for methodological research that are not strongly motivated by high-potential engineering applications are not appropriate for this program."
389,"Mind, Machine and Motor Nexus",PD-19-058Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Mind, Machine and Motor Nexus (M3X) program supports fundamental research at the intersection of mind, machine and motor. A distinguishing characteristic of the program is an integrated treatment of human intent, perception, and behavior in interaction with embodied and intelligent engineered systems and as mediated by motor manipulation. M3X projects should advance the holistic analysis of cognition and of embodiment as present in both human and machine elements. This work will encompass not only how mind interacts with motor function in the manipulation of machines, but also how, in turn, machine response and function may shape and influence both mind and motor function.  The M3X program seeks to support the development of theories, representations, and working models that draw upon and contribute to fundamental understanding within and across diverse fields, including but not limited to systems science and engineering; mechatronics; cognitive, behavioral and perceptual sciences; and applied computing. Research funded through this program is expected to lead to new computable theories and to the physical manifestation of these theories.

Application areas supported by the M3X program span the full breadth of the Division of Civil, Mechanical and Manufacturing Innovation. Methodological innovation is emphasized, as is a focus on engaging new and emerging thematic areas.

The M3X program does not support disaggregated, parallel efforts from individual disciplines or investigators: rather, supported activities must strongly integrate across disciplines to enable discoveries that would not otherwise be possible. Additionally, the M3X program will not consider proposals that do not integrate physical considerations in a fundamental way. Principal investigators proposing pure artificial intelligence or pure machine learning research are referred to funding opportunities in the Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering."
390,Engineering Design and System Engineering,PD-19-072Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Engineering Design and Systems Engineering (EDSE) program supports fundamental research into the basic processes and phenomena of engineering design and systems engineering. The program seeks proposals leading to improved understanding about how processes, organizational structure, social interactions, strategic decision making, and other factors impact success in the planning and execution of engineering design and systems engineering projects. It also supports advances pertaining to engineering design and systems engineering in areas that include, but are not limited to, decision making under uncertainty, including preference and demand modeling; problem decomposition and decision delegation; applications of reverse game theory (mechanism design); computer-aided design; design representation; system performance modeling and prediction; design optimization; uncertainty quantification; domain- or concern-specific design methods; and advanced computational techniques for supporting effective human cognition, decision making, and collaboration. Competitive proposals for novel methods will include a plan to evaluate rigorously the effectiveness and performance of the proposed approach.


The EDSE program encourages multidisciplinary collaborations of experts in design and systems engineering with experts in other domains. Of particular interest is research on the design of engineering material systems that leverages the unique aspects of a particular material system to realize advanced design methods that are driven by performance metrics and incorporate processing/manufacturing considerations.


The EDSE program does not support the development of ad-hoc approaches that lack grounding in theory, nor does it support design activities that do not advance scientific knowledge about engineering design or systems engineering. Prospective investigators are encouraged to discuss research ideas and project scope with the Program Director in advance of proposal preparation and submission."
391,Biomechanics and Mechanobiology,PD-19-7479,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The BMMB program supports fundamental research in biomechanics and mechanobiology. The program emphasizes multiscale mechanics approaches that integrate across molecular, cell, tissue and organ domains in the study of organisms. Projects may include theoretical, computational, and experimental approaches.


An important concern is the influence of in vivo mechanical forces on cell and matrix biology in the histomorphogenesis, maintenance, regeneration and aging of tissues. The program also is interested in efforts to translate recent mechanobiological discoveries into engineering science. The program encourages the consideration of diverse living tissues as smart materials that are self-designing."
392,Mechanics of Materials and Structures,PD-19-1630,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Mechanics of Materials and Structures program supports fundamental research in mechanics as related to the behavior of deformable solid materials and structures under internal and external actions. The program supports a diverse spectrum of research with emphasis on transformative advances in experimental, theoretical, and computational methods. Submitted proposals should clearly emphasize the contributions to the field of mechanics.


Proposals related to material response are welcome, including, but not limited to, advances in fundamental understanding of deformation, fracture, and fatigue as well as contact and friction. Proposals that relate to structural response are also welcome, including, but not limited to, advances in the understanding of nonlinear deformation, instability and collapse, and wave propagation. Proposals addressing mechanics at the intersection of materials and structures, such as, but not limited to, meta-materials, hierarchical, micro-architectured and low-dimensional materials are also encouraged.


Proposals that explore and build upon advanced computing techniques and tools to enable major advances in mechanics are particularly welcome. For example, proposals incorporating reduced-order modeling, data-driven techniques, and/or stochastic methods with a strong emphasis on validation are encouraged. Also welcome are proposals addressing data analytics for deformation or damage response deduction from large experimental and computational data sets. Similarly, proposals that explore new experimental techniques to capture deformation and failure information for extreme ranges of loading or material behavior are also encouraged. Finally, experimental and computational methods that address information across multiple length and time scales, potentially involving multiphysics considerations are also welcome.


Proposals with a focus on buildings and civil infrastructure system are welcome in CMMI and should be submitted to the program on Structural and Architectural Engineering Materials (SAEM). Proposals addressing processing and mechanical performance enhancements should be submitted to the Materials Engineering and Processing (MEP) program. Investigators with proposals focused on design methodological approaches and theory enabling the accelerated development and insertion of materials should consider the Design of Engineering Material Systems (DEMS) program. Lastly, investigators with interest in developing a combined theoretical and experimental approach to accelerate materials discovery and development should direct their proposals to the Designing Materials to Revolutionize and Engineer Our Future (DMREF) opportunity.


Proposers are actively encouraged to email a one-page project summary to MOMS@nsf.gov before full proposal submission to determine if the research topic falls within the scope of the MOMS program."
393,"Humans, Disasters, and the Built Environment",PD-19-1638,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Humans, Disasters and the Built Environment (HDBE) program supports fundamental, multidisciplinary research on the interactions between humans and the built environment within and among communities exposed to natural, technological and other types of hazards and disasters. The program's context is provided by ongoing and emerging changes in three interwoven elements of a community: its population, its built environment (critical infrastructures, physical and virtual spaces, and buildings and related structures) and the hazards and disasters to which it is exposed. The HDBE program seeks research that integrates these elements and that can contribute to theories that hold over a broad range of scales and conditions. Examples include but are not limited to unified frameworks and theoretical models that encompass non-hazard to extreme hazard and disaster conditions, theoretical and empirical studies that consider how interactions between a community's population and its built environment may suppress or amplify hazard exposure or its effects, and studies that seek to inform scholarship through the development of shared data and related resources. In these and other areas funded through the HDBE program, research that challenges conventional wisdom on the interactions among humans, the built environment and hazards and disasters is particularly encouraged. Given the richness of the phenomena under study, the HDBE program seeks research that advances theories, methods and data within and across diverse disciplines, whether in engineering, the social sciences, computing or other relevant fields. Ultimately, research funded through this program is expected to inform how communities can cultivate and engage a broad range of physical, social and other resources to ensure improved quality of life for their inhabitants."
394,Civil Infrastructure Systems,PD-19-1631,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Civil Infrastructure Systems (CIS) program supports fundamental and innovative research in the design, operation and management of civil infrastructure that contributes to creating smart, sustainable and resilient communities at local, national and international scales. This program focuses on civil infrastructure as a system in which interactions between spatially- and functionally- distributed components and intersystem connections exist. All critical civil infrastructure systems are of interest, including transportation, power, water, pipelines and others.


The CIS program encourages potentially disruptive ideas that will open new frontiers and significantly broaden and transform relevant research communities. The program particularly welcomes research that addresses novel system and service design, system integration, big data analytics, and socio-technological-infrastructure connections. The program values diverse theoretical, scientific, mathematical, or computational contributions from a broad set of disciplines.


While component-level, subject-matter knowledge may be crucial in many research efforts, the program does not support research with a primary contribution pertaining to individual infrastructure components such as materials, sensor technology, extreme event analysis, human factors, climate modeling, structural, geotechnical, hydrologic or environmental engineering."
395,Engineering for Civil Infrastructure,PD-19-073Y,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Engineering for Civil Infrastructure (ECI) program supports fundamental research in infrastructure materials and architectural, geotechnical and structural engineering that can shape the future of the nation's civil infrastructure. The ECI program focuses on geomaterials and geostructures, structural materials (metallic, polymeric, cementitious, glass, composites, etc.), structural and non-structural systems, and building envelopes. Principal Investigators are encouraged to consider physical civil infrastructure subjected to and interacting with the natural environment during construction; under normal service conditions; and under severe loading and environmental conditions such as extreme single or multi natural hazard events (including earthquakes, windstorms, tsunamis, storm surges, sinkholes, subsidence, and landslides).


The ECI program supports both disciplinary and cross-disciplinary research, such as research at the intersection of civil infrastructure with data science and analytics, uncertainty quantification, risk and reliability, artificial intelligence and machine learning, biomimetics and bioinspiration, metamaterial concepts, multifunctionality (architectural, mechanical, thermal and others), and/or physics-based, multiscale, predictive modeling and simulation.


Principal Investigators are encouraged to address, as appropriate, potential economic, environmental, sustainability, resiliency and societal aspects of the research. The ECI program supports research on civil infrastructure that contributes to the National Science Foundation’s role in the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program (NEHRP) and the National Windstorm Impact Reduction Program (NWIRP).


Principal Investigators are encouraged to leverage NSF’s investments in the Natural Hazards Engineering Research Infrastructure (NHERI) experimental, computational modeling and simulation, and data resources (https://www.designsafe-ci.org/) in their research to accelerate advances needed for reducing the impacts of natural hazards on civil infrastructure. The NHERI Five-Year Science Plan (January 2020) (https://tinyurl.com/ue8g5ra) offers a range of research topics that could benefit from the use of NHERI resources and are relevant to the ECI program.


The ECI program does not support research that lacks grounding in theory or focused on mission agency responsibilities, such as nuclear power plant, energy, and transportation infrastructure (for example, bridges and pavements), and natural resource exploration or recovery.The ECI program also does not support research onhazard characterization for and mitigation of the impact of explosions, blast loading, and fire; nor on sensor and measurement technology development. Research on natural hazard characterization is supported through programs in the NSF Directorate for Geosciences.


Proposers are actively encouraged to email a one-page project summary to ECI@nsf.gov before full proposal submission to determine if the research topic falls within the scope of the ECI program."
396,Cultural Anthropology Program Senior Research Awards,18-560,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The primary objective of the Cultural Anthropology Program is to support fundamental, systematic anthropological research and training to increase understanding of the causes, consequences, and complexities of human social and cultural variability. The Cultural Anthropology Program welcomes proposals from researchers in all sub-fields of cultural anthropology and research at any temporal and spatial scale. Methodologies and approaches employed may include ethnographic field research, surveys, remote sensing, the collection of bio-markers, experimental research inside or outside of laboratory settings, archival research, the analysis of materials collections and extant data bases, mathematical and computational modeling, and other research tools as appropriate for the research proposed. The overarching research goals should be to produce empirically grounded findings that will be generalizable beyond particular case studies and contribute to building a more robust anthropological science of human society and culture.


The National Science Foundation's mandate is to support basic scientific research. ""Basic research"" in cultural anthropology means theory-generating and theory-testing research that creates new knowledge about human culture and society. Therefore, the Cultural Anthropology Program cannot support research that takes as its primary objective improved clinical practice, applied policy, or other immediate application. While application may be a desirable component of the proposal's Broader Impacts, a proposal that only proposes to use anthropological methods and approaches to find solutions to social, medical, or other problems and does not specifically propose to make a theory-testing and/or theory-expanding contribution to anthropological science, will be returned without review."
397,Precision Imaging of Oral Lesions (R01- Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-787,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The intent of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to advance the development, adaptation, optimization, and validation of accurate, reproducible, specific, and sensitive imaging approaches to improve diagnosis, treatment and treatment monitoring for diseases and conditions in the oral cavity and oropharynx."
398,"Development and Testing of Novel Interventions to Improve HIV Prevention, Care, and Program Implementation (R34 - Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-780,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages formative research, intervention development, and pilot-testing of interventions. Primary scientific areas of focus include the feasibility, tolerability, acceptability and safety of novel or adapted interventions that target HIV prevention, treatment or services research. For the purposes of this FOA, ""intervention"" may include behavioral, social, or structural approaches, as well as combination biomedical and behavioral approaches that prevent the acquisition and transmission of HIV infection, or improve clinical outcomes for persons who are HIV infected."
399,Pilot and Feasibility Studies in Preparation for Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention Trials (R34 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-775,"City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) for R34 applications seeks to support: (a) pilot and/or feasibility testing of innovative new, revised, or adapted prevention intervention approaches to prevent or delay the initiation and onset of drug and alcohol use, the progression to misuse or problem use or alcohol and other substance use disorder, reduce drinking and driving and deaths related to impaired driving, and the drug- or alcohol-related acquisition or transmission of HIV infection and viral hepatitis among diverse populations and settings; and, (b) pre-trial feasibility and acceptability testing for prevention services and systems research. It is expected that research conducted via this R34 mechanism will consist of studies that are a pre-requisite for preparing and submitting subsequent applications for larger scale drug or alcohol abuse prevention and/or drug- or alcohol-related HIV prevention intervention studies. This R34 FOA does not support applications for which the sole focus is development of intervention protocols, manuals, or the standardization of protocols. Any intervention development work must be imbedded within a pilot/feasibility study. Of particular interest is prevention research that addresses current public health priorities and priority settings and systems."
400,"Maternal Nutrition and Pre-pregnancy Obesity: Effects on Mothers, Infants and Children (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-776,"For profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages applications to improve health outcomes for women, infants and children, by stimulating interdisciplinary research focused on maternal nutrition and pre-pregnancy obesity. Maternal health significantly impacts not only the mother but also the intrauterine environment, and subsequently fetal development and the health of the newborn."
401,"Pilot Health Services and Economic Research on the Treatment of Drug, Alcohol, and Tobacco Use Disorders (R34 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-774,"Special district governmentsState governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages pilot and preliminary research in preparation for larger-scale services research effectiveness trials. Relevant trials may test a wide range of approaches, including interventions, practices, and policies designed to optimize access to, and the quality, effectiveness, affordability and utilization of drug, tobacco, or alcohol use disorder treatments and related services, as well as services for comorbid medical and mental disorder conditions. Relevant approaches may include both those that are novel, and those that are commonly used in practice but lack an evidence base. This FOA provides resources for assessing the feasibility, acceptability, and utility of these approaches, in addition to usual trial preparation activities."
402,International Research Collaboration on Drug Abuse and Addiction Research  (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-773,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages collaborative research applications on drug abuse and addiction that: 1. Take advantage of unusual opportunities that exist outside the United States to access talent, resources, populations, or environmental conditions in other countries that will speed scientific discovery 2. Describe how the research will significantly advance U.S. health sciences 3. Demonstrate specific relevance to the NIDA mission and objectives. To determine whether your research plan is relevant to the NIDA mission and objectives, review the NIDA Strategic Plan (https://www.drugabuse.gov/about-nida/2016-2020-nida-strategic-plan). Where feasible, applications should address NIDAs international scientific priority areas (https://www.drugabuse.gov/international/research-priorities) 4. Include an investigator from a U.S. institution and a non-U.S. citizen partner living and working in another country."
403,NSF/FDA Scholar-In-Residence at FDA,18-556,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The National Science Foundation (NSF), through the Directoratefor Engineering, the Directorate of Computer and Information Science and Engineering Division of Computer and Network Systems, and the Directorate for Mathematical and Physical Sciences Division of Materials Research, along with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), through its Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), have established the NSF/FDA Scholar-in-Residence Program at FDA. This program comprises an interagency partnership for the investigation of scientific and engineering issues concerning emerging trends in medical device technology. This partnership is designed to enable investigators in science, engineering, and computer science to develop research collaborations within the intramural research environment at the FDA. Thissolicitation features three flexible mechanisms for support of research at the FDA: 1) Principal Investigators at FDA; 2) Postdoctoral Researchers at FDA; and 3) Graduate Students at FDA.


 "
404,"U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences Broad Agency Announcement for Basic, Applied, and Advanced Research (Fiscal Years 2018-2023)",W911NF-18-S-0005,"Small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Individuals",Dept of the Army -- Materiel Command," 

Notice to All Interested Vendors: If you have questions regarding Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) W911NF-18-S-0005 or any white paper solicitation associated with W911NF-18-S-0005, please submit your question(s) in writing to the ACC (APG) RTP Point of Contact, Maria D. Nelson, at maria.d.nelson.civ@mail.mil.  This process helps expedite responses to your question(s) in lieu of telephonic inquiries. The full announcement lists and describes the topics of interest and cites the contact information for the associated Technical Point of Contact for each topic.  All questions of a technical nature should be directed to the respective Technical Point of Contact. All questions of a business nature should be directed to the ACC (APG) RTP Point of Contact, Maria D. Nelson, at maria.d.nelson.civ@mail.mil.  

 Important Note:  Collection of Data Concerning Women in STEM under DoD Grants and Cooperative Agreements- 
 

 Effective 1 January 2018, funding opportunity announcements (FOAs), including broad agency announcements under which institutions of higher education are eligible to apply, will be required to specify that the SF-424 Research and Related Personal Data and Research and Related Key/Senior Person Profile (Expanded) form must be provided with each application submitted under the FOA.  This form includes data fields for the PI and co-PI characteristics such as gender, degree, and degree year.  While we note that the information on the form is voluntary, affected Components still must collect the form.  
 The Broad Agency Announcement description for W911NF-18-S-0005 is as follows:
The U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences (ARI) announces the ARI FY18-23 Broad Agency Announcement for Basic, Applied, and Advanced Scientific Research. This Broad Agency Announcement, which sets forth research areas of interest to the United States Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences, is issued under the provisions of paragraph 6.102(d)(2) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), which provides for the competitive selection of proposals.  Proposals submitted in response to this BAA and selected for award are considered to be the result of full and open competition and in full compliance with the provisions of Public Law 98-369 (The Competition in Contracting Act of 1984) and subsequent amendments.  The U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences is the Army's lead agency for the conduct of research, development, and analyses for the improvement of Army readiness and performance via research advances and applications of the behavioral and social sciences that address personnel, organization, training, and leader development issues. Programs funded under this BAA include basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development that can improve human performance and Army readiness.    
Those contemplating submission of a proposal are encouraged to contact the ARI Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) for the respective topic area cited in the BAA.  If the R&D warrants further inquiry and funding is available, submission of a proposal will be entertained. The recommended three-step sequence is (1) telephone call to the ARI TPOC or responsible ARI Manager, (2) white paper submission, (3) full proposal submission. Awards may be made in the form of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements.  Proposals are sought from educational institutions, non-profit/not-for-profit organizations, and commercial organizations, domestic or foreign, for research and development (R&D) in those areas specified in the BAA. The U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences encourages Historically Black Colleges and Universities/Minority Serving Institutions (HBCU/MSI) and small businesses to submit proposals for consideration.  Foreign owned, controlled, or influenced organizations are advised that security restrictions may apply that could preclude their participation in these efforts. Government laboratories, Federal Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs), and US Service Academies are not eligible to participate as prime contractors or recipients. However, they may be able to participate as subcontractors or subrecipients (eligibility will be determined on a case by case basis).
 "
405,Harnessing Big Data to Halt HIV (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-764,"State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to promote research that transforms understanding of HIV transmission, the HIV care continuum, and HIV comorbidities using Big Data Science (BDS). This FOA will support projects to assemble diverse big data sources, conduct robust and reproducible analyses, and create meaningful visualizations of big data, as well as, engage ethical experts where appropriate to ensure the development of this scientific area is guided by ethical principles."
406,BRAIN Initiative: Targeted BRAIN Circuits Projects- TargetedBCP (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-NS-18-030,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This FOA solicits applications for research projects that use innovative, methodologically-integrated approaches to understand how circuit activity gives rise to mental experience and behavior. The goal is to support projects that can realize a meaningful outcome within 5 years. Applications should address circuit function in the context of specific neural systems such as sensation, perception, attention, reasoning, intention, decision-making, emotion, navigation, communication or homeostasis. Projects should link theory and data analysis to experimental design and should produce predictive models as deliverables. Projects should aim to improve the understanding of circuits of the central nervous system by systematically controlling stimuli and/or behavior while actively recording and/or manipulating dynamic patterns of neural activity.  Projects can use non-human and human species, and applications should explain how the selected species offers ideal conditions for revealing general principles about the circuit basis of a specific behavior."
407,Addressing the Challenges of the Opioid Epidemic in Minority Health and Health Disparities Research in the U.S. (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-745,"Special district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage developmental and exploratory research focused on determining the mechanisms for the variation in the prevalence of Opioid Use Disorder (OUD), and understanding and reducing disparities in opioid care in minority health and health disparity populations in the U.S. This initiative will also seek to identify multi-level intervention strategies at the institutional and systems level for addressing OUD in these populations."
408,"Exploring Epigenomic or Non-Coding RNA Regulation in the Development, Maintenance, or Treatment of Chronic Pain (R61/R33 Clinical Trial Optional)",PAR-18-742,"County governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsState governments",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this initiative is to encourage research that investigates the role of molecular epigenetic or non-coding RNA regulatory pathways in the development or maintenance of chronic pain.  Ultimately research in the area will provide foundational knowledge that can be exploited to develop novel and non-addictive pain medications.
409,"Age-related Microbiota Changes and their Implications in Chronic Disease Prevention, Treatment and Progression (R01 Clinical Trial Optional).",PA-18-738,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The overall purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to assess the role of the microbiome in health and disease during aging. This initiative will support research projects designed to evaluate changes in the microbiota during lifetime and its influence in health and disease status in the elderly, including those from racial/ethnic minority and underserved populations and understand the underlying mechanisms of microbiota interactions in aged subjects as related to health and disease. This FOA will accept basic mechanistic, preclinical studies in animal models and human clinical trial proposals in accordance with the state of the science."
410,"Age-related Microbiota Changes and their Implications in Chronic Disease Prevention, Treatment and Progression (R21 Clinical Trial Optional).",PA-18-739,"City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governments",National Institutes of Health,"The overall purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to assess the role of the microbiome in health and disease during aging. This initiative will support research projects designed to evaluate changes in the microbiota during lifetime and its influence in health and disease status in the elderly, including those from racial/ethnic minority and underserved populations and understand the underlying mechanisms of microbiota interactions in aged subjects as related to health and disease. This FOA will accept basic mechanistic, preclinical studies in animal models and human clinical trial proposals in accordance with the state of the science."
411,Exploratory Grant Award to Promote Workforce Diversity in Basic Cancer Research (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-731,"Special district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) represents the continuation of an NCI program to enhance the diversity of the pool of NCI-funded research workforce by recruiting and supporting eligible investigators from groups that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, clinical and social sciences. This funding opportunity will also provide a bridge to investigators who have completed their research training and may need extra time to develop a larger research project grant application."
412,Statistics,PD-18-1269,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Statistics Program supports research in statistical theory and methods, including research in statistical methods for applications to any domain of science and engineering. The theory forms the base for statistical science. The methods are used for stochastic modeling, and the collection, analysis and interpretation of data. The methods characterize uncertainty in the data and facilitate advancement in science and engineering. The Program encourages proposals ranging from single-investigator projects to interdisciplinary team projects."
413,Mathematical Biology,PD-18-7334,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Mathematical Biology Program supports research in areas of applied and computationalmathematics with relevance to the biological sciences. Successful proposals are mathematically innovative and address challenging problems of interest to members of the biological community.


Some projects of interest to the Mathematical Biology Program may include development of mathematical concepts and tools traditionally seen in other disciplinary programs within the Division of Mathematical Sciences, e.g., topology, probability, statistics, computational mathematics, etc. To receive appropriate and timely review, such proposals should be submitted directly to the relevant disciplinary program that has the earliest deadline, with other program(s) selected as secondary. Note that proposals that use established mathematical and computational tools to address problems in the biological sciences are typically not appropriate for submission to DMS. For further details on other disciplinary programs within DMS, see the corresponding program descriptions.


In general, if a proposal is appropriate for review by more than one NSF program, it is advisable to contact the program officers handling each program to determine when the proposal should be submitted and to facilitate the review process. Usually, it is most appropriate to submit in line with the earliest program deadline.


The Mathematical Biology Program regularly seeks joint reviews of proposals with programs in the Directorates of Biological Sciences and Engineering. Investigators are encouraged to discuss their project with program officers in relevant areas to determine if it should be submitted to more than one program.


Research in Undergraduate Institutions (RUI)


The Mathematical Biology Program accepts RUI proposals only during the full proposal submission window. Investigators submitting an RUI proposal should read the RUI solicitation (link below), as the rules for proposal format deviate from the Grant Proposal Guide.


Conferences


Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation, ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences,"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities.


To facilitate timely notification of the availability of support:


proposals for conferences, workshops, etc., to be held in the US must be submitted 8 months in advance of the conference date;
proposals to support group travel to meetings outside the US must be submitted 12 months in advance of the meeting date;
proposals for conferences, workshops, etc., whose budget request exceeds $50,000 must be submitted during the program's annual submission window.
"
414,Probability,PD-18-1263,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Probability Program supports research on the theory and applications of probability. Subfields include discrete probability, stochastic processes, limit theory, interacting particle systems, stochastic differential and partial differential equations, and Markov processes. Research in probability which involves applications to other areas of science and engineering is especially encouraged. 

Conferences

Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities. Conference and workshop proposals should be submitted eight months before the requested start date."
415,Foundations,PD-18-1268,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The program in Foundations supports research in mathematical logic and the foundations of mathematics, including proof theory, recursion theory, model theory, set theory, and infinitary combinatorics. 

Conferences

Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities. Conference and workshop proposals should be submitted eight months before the requested start date."
416,Combinatorics,PD-18-7970,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Combinatorics program supports research on discrete structures and includes algebraic, enumerative, existential, extremal, geometric, and probabilistic combinatorics, including graph theory.

Conferences

Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below) to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities. Conference proposals must be submitted at least six months in advance of the conference, and in the same fiscal year (which begins October 1) if possible."
417,Research on the Health of Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Populations (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-729,"Small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"IC reissue of FOA in response to the new clinical trial requirements. This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) calls for research on the health of transgender and gender nonconforming people of all ages, including both youth and adults who are questioning their gender identity and those individuals who are making or who have made a transition from being identified as one gender to the other. This group encompasses individuals whose gender identity differs from the sex on their original birth certificate or whose gender expression varies significantly from what is traditionally associated with or typical for that sex."
418,Research on the Health of Transgender and Gender Nonconforming Populations (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-728,"Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"IC reissue of FOA in response to the new clinical trial requirements. This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) calls for research on the health of transgender and gender nonconforming people of all ages, including both youth and adults who are questioning their gender identity and those individuals who are making or who have made a transition from being identified as one gender to the other. This group encompasses individuals whose gender identity differs from the sex on their original birth certificate or whose gender expression varies significantly from what is traditionally associated with or typical for that sex."
419,Improving Patient Adherence to Treatment and Prevention Regimens to Promote Health (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-723,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is being issued by the NIH Adherence Network through the Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR) with participation from multiple NIH Institutes and Centers. This FOA calls for research grant applications that address patient adherence to treatment and prevention regimens to promote health outcomes. These adherence applications may address healthcare regimen initiation, implementation, and/or persistence by patients. Descriptive and intervention research may address adherence determinants at one or more levels of ecologic influence, including the patient, caregiver/family, provider and/or healthcare system, and community levels. Attention to scientific rigor in all applications is paramount, with emphasis on testing intervention mechanisms of action and use of appropriate sample sizes and valid outcome measures. The specific research interests of participating NIH Institutes and Centers are detailed within. This FOA accepts applications that either propose or do not propose a clinical trial(s)."
420,Improving Patient Adherence to Treatment and Prevention Regimens to Promote Health (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-722,"City or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsState governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is being issued by the NIH Adherence Network through the Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR) with participation from multiple NIH Institutes and Centers. This FOA calls for research grant applications that address patient adherence to treatment and prevention regimens to promote health outcomes. These adherence applications may address healthcare regimen initiation, implementation, and/or persistence by patients. Descriptive and intervention research may address adherence determinants at one or more levels of ecologic influence, including the patient, caregiver/family, provider and/or healthcare system, and community levels. Attention to scientific rigor in all applications is paramount, with emphasis on testing intervention mechanisms of action and use of appropriate sample sizes and valid outcome measures. The specific research interests of participating NIH Institutes and Centers are detailed within. This FOA accepts applications that either propose or do not propose a clinical trial(s)."
421,National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Academic Research Program (NARP),HM0476-18-BAA-0001,"Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency ,"NGA welcomes all innovative ideas for path-breaking research that may advance the GEOINT mission. The NGA mission is to provide timely, relevant, and accurate geospatial intelligence (GEOINT) in support of national security objectives. GEOINT is the exploitation and analysis of imagery and geospatial information to describe, assess, and visually depict physical features and geographically referenced activities on the Earth. GEOINT consists of imagery, imagery intelligence, and geospatial information. NGA offers a variety of critical GEOINT products in support of U.S. national security objectives and Federal disaster relief, including aeronautical, geodesy, hydrographic, imagery, geospatial and topographical information. The NGA Academic Research Program (NARP) is focused on innovative, far-reaching basic and applied research in science, technology, engineering and mathematics having the potential to advance the GEOINT mission. The objective of the NARP is to support innovative, high-payoff research that provides the basis for revolutionary progress in areas of science and technology affecting the needs and mission of NGA. This research also supports the National System for Geospatial Intelligence (NSG), which is the combination of technology, systems and organizations that gather, produce, distribute and consume geospatial data and information. This research is aimed at advancing GEOINT capabilities by improving analytical methods, enhancing and expanding systems capabilities, and leveraging resources for common NSG goals. The NARP also seeks to improve education in scientific, mathematics, and engineering skills necessary to advance GEOINT capabilities. It is NGA’s intent to solicit fundamental research under this BAA. Fundamental research means basic and applied research in science and engineering, the results of which ordinarily are published and shared broadly within the scientific community, as distinguished from proprietary research and from Industrial development, design, production, and product utilization, the results of which ordinarily are restricted for proprietary or national security reason. (National Security Decision Directive (NSDD) 189, National Policy on the Transfer of Scientific, Technical, and Engineering Information).NGA seeks proposals from eligible U.S. institutions for path-breaking GEOINT research in areas of potential interest to NGA, the DoD, and the Intelligence Community (IC).** Whitepapers submitted in response to this BAA will be accepted on a continuous, rolling basis through 11:59p.m. EDT on 31 September 2021. **"
422,Army Rapid Capability Office (RCO) Broad Agency Announcement,W56JSR-18-S-0001,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",ACC-APG-Edgewood,"This Broad Agency Announcement (BAA), W56JSR-18-S-0001, is sponsored by the Army Rapid Capabilities Office (RCO).  The RCO serves to expedite critical capabilities to the field to meet Combatant Commanders’ needs.  The Office enables the Army to experiment, evolve, and deliver technologies in real time to address both urgent and emerging threats while supporting acquisition reform efforts.  The RCO executes rapid prototyping and initial equipping of capabilities, particularly in the areas of cyber, electronic warfare, survivability and positioning, navigation and timing (PNT), as well as other priority projects that will enable Soldiers to operate and win in contested environments decisively.  This BAA is an expression of interest only and does not commit the Government to make an award or pay proposal preparation costs generated in response to this announcement.

Questions concerning the receipt of your submission should be directed: http://rapidcapabilitiesoffice.army.mil/eto/

Technical questions will be sent to the appropriate Technical Points of Contact (TPOC), topic authors, and/or Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) to request clarification of their areas of interest. No discussions are to be held with offerors by the technical staff after proposal submission without permission of the Army Contracting Command-Aberdeen Proving Ground (ACC-APG) Contracting Officer.
"
423,BRAIN Initiative: New Technologies and Novel Approaches for Large-Scale Recording and Modulation in the Nervous System (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),RFA-NS-18-020,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"Understanding the dynamic activity of neural circuits is central to the NIH BRAIN Initiative. This FOA seeks applications for proof-of-concept testing and development of new technologies and novel approaches for largescale recording and manipulation of neural activity to enable transformative understanding of dynamic signaling in the nervous system. In particular, we seek exceptionally creative approaches to address major challenges associated with recording and manipulating neural activity, at or near cellular resolution, at multiple spatial and/or temporal scales, in any region and throughout the entire depth of the brain. It is expected that the proposed research may be high-risk, but if successful could profoundly change the course of neuroscience research. Proposed technologies should be compatible with experiments in behaving animals, and should include advancements that enable or reduce major barriers to hypothesis-driven experiments. Technologies may engage diverse types of signaling beyond neuronal electrical activity for large-scale analysis, and may utilize any modality such as optical, electrical, magnetic, acoustic or genetic recording/manipulation. Applications that seek to integrate multiple approaches are encouraged. Where appropriate, applications are expected to integrate appropriate domains of expertise, including biological, chemical and physical sciences, engineering, computational modeling and statistical analysis."
424,BRAIN Initiative: New Concepts and Early - Stage Research for Large - Scale Recording and Modulation in the Nervous System (R21) (Clinical Trial Not Allowed),RFA-EY-18-001,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"A central goal of the BRAIN Initiative is to understand how electrical and chemical signals code information in neural circuits and give rise to sensations, thoughts, emotions and actions. While currently available technologies can provide some understanding, they may not be sufficient to accomplish this goal. For example, non-invasive technologies are low resolution and/or provide indirect measures such as blood flow, which are imprecise; invasive technologies can provide information at the level of single neurons producing the fundamental biophysical signals, but they can only be applied to tens or hundreds of neurons, out of a total number in the human brain estimated at 85 billion. Other BRAIN FOAs seek to develop novel technology (RFA-NS-17-003) or to optimize existing technology ready for in-vivo proof-of-concept testing and collection of preliminary data (RFA-NS-17-004) for recording or manipulating neural activity on a scale that is beyond what is currently possible. This FOA seeks applications for unique and innovative technologies that are in an even earlier stage of development than that sought in other FOAs, including new and untested ideas that are in the initial stages of conceptualization. In addition to experimental approaches, the support provided under this FOA might enable calculations, simulations, computational models, or other mathematical techniques for demonstrating that the signal sources and/or measurement technologies are theoretically capable of meeting the demands of large-scale recording or manipulation of circuit activity in humans or in animal models. The support might also be used for building and testing phantoms, prototypes, in-vitro or other bench-top models in order to validate underlying theoretical assumptions in preparation for future FOAs aimed at testing in animal models."
425,"Coupling, Energetics, and Dynamics of Atmospheric Regions",18-544,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Coupling, Energetics, and Dynamics of Atmospheric Regions (CEDAR) program is a broad-based research program with the goal of understanding the behavior of atmospheric regions from the middle atmosphere upward through the thermosphere and ionosphere into the exosphere in terms of coupling, energetics, chemistry, and dynamics on regional and global scales. These processes are related to the sources of perturbations that propagate upward from the lower atmosphere as well as to solar radiation and particle inputs from above. The activities within this program combine observations from ground based and space based platforms, theory and modeling."
426,Geospace Environment Modeling,18-543,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Geospace Environment Modeling (GEM) is a broad-based research program investigating the physics of the Earth's magnetosphere and the coupling of the magnetosphere to the atmosphere and to the solar wind. The goal of the GEM program is to make accurate predictions of the geospace environment by developing physical understanding of the large-scale organization and dynamics from observations, theory, and increasingly realistic models."
427,Epidemiologic Research on Emerging Risk Factors and Liver Cancer Susceptibility (R21 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-678,"State governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this concept initiative is to promote etiologic research investigating novel and innovative hypotheses on emerging risk factors (biological, environmental, and social) and their interplay with established risk factors (e.g., viral hepatitis) associated with the development of liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma and other histological subtypes) in the United States."
428,Epidemiologic Research on Emerging Risk Factors and Liver Cancer Susceptibility (R01 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-677,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this concept initiative is to promote etiologic research investigating novel and innovative hypotheses on emerging risk factors (biological, environmental, and social) and their interplay with established risk factors (e.g., viral hepatitis) associated with the development of liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma and other histological subtypes) in the United States."
429,"Human-Centered Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance (ISR) Leveraged Science and Technology (S&T) Program",FA8650-18-S-6001,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force -- Research Lab,"This effort is an open 2 Step BAA soliciting innovative research concepts for the overall mission of the Human-Centered Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance (ISR) Division (711  HPW/RHX).The overall RHX research objective is to develop human-centered S&T that enables the Air Force to more effectively execute the ISR mission. This research objective is dual natured: (1) improve the capability to identify, track and locate human targets in the ISR environment and (2) improve the performance of humans who process, exploit, analyze, produce, and disseminate the ISR data and information. Human-centered ISR research encompasses three major research areas: (1) human signatures, (2) human trust and interaction and (3) human analyst augmentation. The human signatures research develops technologies to sense and exploit human bio-signatures at both the molecular level and macro (anthropometric) level. The human trust and interaction research develops technologies to improve human-to-human interactions as well as human-to- machine interactions. The human analyst augmentation research develops technologies to enhance analyst performance and to test the efficacy of newly developed technologies within a simulated operational environment.     "
430,Research Options for Space Enterprise Technologies (ROSET),FA9453-17-S-0005,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",AFRL Kirtland AFB,"The Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Space Vehicle Directorate (RV) is interested in receiving proposals from all offerors to advance state of the art technology and scientific knowledge supporting all aspects of space systems including payload adapters, on-orbit systems, communications links, ground systems, and user equipment. Efforts will include basic and advanced research, advanced component and technology development, prototyping, and system development and demonstration and will span the range from concept and laboratory experimentation to testing/demonstration in a relevant environment. Specific tasks include design, development, analysis, fabrication, integration, characterization, testing/experimentation, and demonstration of hardware and software products."
431,Basic Research in Cancer Health Disparities (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-655,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages grant applications from investigators interested in conducting basic, mechanistic research into the biological/genetic causes of cancer health disparities. These research project grants (R01) will support innovative studies designed to investigate biological/genetic bases of cancer disparities, such as (1) mechanistic studies of biological factors associated with cancer disparities, including those related to basic research in cancer biology or cancer prevention strategies, (2) the development and testing of new methodologies and models, and (3) secondary data analyses. This FOA is also designed to aid and facilitate the growth of a nationwide cohort of scientists with a high level of basic research expertise in cancer health disparities research who can expand available resources and tools, such as biospecimens, patient derived models, and methods that are necessary to conduct basic research in cancer health disparities."
432,Developmentally Tailored HIV Prevention and Care Research for Adolescents and Young Adults (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-651,"County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement encourages developmentally tailored research focused on adolescents and emerging adults as it relates to HIV prevention and treatment. Research is encouraged to incorporate recent advances in adolescent and young adult developmental research to optimize outcomes in HIV prevention and care research for this heterogeneous population. PA-FY-NNN uses the R01 grant mechanism, PA-FY-NNN uses the R21 mechanism, while PA-FY-NNN uses the R34 mechanism. High risk/high payoff projects that lack preliminary data or utilize existing data may be most appropriate for the R21 mechanism. Applicants with preliminary data and/or planning to include longitudinal analysis may wish to apply using the R01 mechanism. Applicants wanting to develop and pilot test an intervention may wish to apply using the R34 mechanism."
433,Developmentally Tailored HIV Prevention and Care Research for Adolescents and Young Adults (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-652,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsState governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement encourages developmentally tailored research focused on adolescents and emerging adults as it relates to HIV prevention and treatment. Exploratory research is encouraged to incorporate recent advances in adolescent and young adult developmental research to better understand HIV prevention and care of this heterogeneous population. PA-FY-NNN uses the R01 grant mechanism, PA-FY-NNN uses the R21 mechanism, while PA-FY-NNN uses the R34 mechanism. High risk/high payoff projects that lack preliminary data or utilize existing data may be most appropriate for the R21 mechanism. Applicants with preliminary data and/or planning to include longitudinal analysis may wish to apply using the R01 mechanism. Applicants wanting to develop and pilot test an intervention may wish to apply using the R34 mechanism"
434,Women and Sex/Gender Differences in Drug and Alcohol Abuse/Dependence (R03 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-601,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsCounty governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is two-fold: (1) to advance identification of male-females differences in drug and alcohol research outcomes, to uncover the mechanisms of those differences, and to conduct translational research on those differences, and (2) to advance research specific to women or highly relevant to women.  Both preclinical and clinical studies are sought across all areas of drug and alcohol research"
435,Women and Sex/Gender Differences in Drug and Alcohol Abuse/Dependence (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-603,"For profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is two-fold: (1) to advance identification of male-females differences in drug and alcohol research outcomes, to uncover the mechanisms of those differences, and to conduct translational research on those differences, and (2) to advance research specific to women or highly relevant to women.  Both preclinical and clinical studies are sought across all areas of drug and alcohol research"
436,Women and Sex/Gender Differences in Drug and Alcohol Abuse/Dependence (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-602,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this FOA is two-fold: (1) to advance identification of male-females differences in drug and alcohol research outcomes, to uncover the mechanisms of those differences, and to conduct translational research on those differences, and (2) to advance research specific to women or highly relevant to women.  Both preclinical and clinical studies are sought across all areas of drug and alcohol research"
437,Administrative Supplements to Existing NIH Grants and Cooperative Agreements (Parent Admin Supp - Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-591,"County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) hereby notify Program Directors/Principal Investigators (PD(s)/PI(s)) holding specific types of NIH research grants listed in the full Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) that funds may be available for administrative supplements to meet increased costs that are within the scope of the approved award, but were unforeseen when the new or renewal application or grant progress report for non-competing continuation support was submitted.  Applications for administrative supplements are considered prior approval requests (as described in Section 8.1.2.11 of the NIH Grants Policy Statement) and will be routed directly to the Grants Management Officer of the parent award. Although requests for administrative supplements may be submitted through this FOA, there is no guarantee that funds are available from the awarding IC or for any specific grant. All applicants are encouraged to discuss potential requests with the awarding IC. Additionally, prior to submission, applicants must review the awarding IC's web site to ensure they meet the IC's requirements.  A list of those web sites is available at https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/admin_supp/index.htm."
438,Change of Grantee Organization (Type 7 Parent Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-590,"City or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institutes of Health (NIH) hereby notify grantee organizations holding specific types of NIH grants, listed in the full Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), that applications for change of grantee organization may be submitted in response to this FOA.  This assumes such a change is programmatically permitted for the particular grant.  Applications for change of grantee organization are considered prior approval requests (as described in Section 8.1.2.7 of the NIH Grants Policy Statement) and will be routed for consideration directly to the Grants Management Specialist named in the current award. Although requests for change of grantee organization may be submitted through this FOA, there is no guarantee that an award will be transferred to the new organization.  All applicants are encouraged to discuss potential requests with the awarding IC before submission."
439,Cutting-Edge Basic Research Awards (CEBRA) (R21-Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-437,"Private institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Cutting-Edge Basic Research Award (CEBRA) is designed to foster highly innovative or conceptually creative research related to the etiology, pathophysiology, prevention, or treatment of substance use disorders (SUDs). It supports high-risk and potentially high-impact research that is underrepresented or not included in NIDA's current portfolio. The proposed research should: (1) test an innovative and significant hypothesis for which there are scant precedent or preliminary data and which, if confirmed, would transform current thinking; and/or (2) develop, and/or adapt, revolutionary techniques or methods for addiction research or that show promising future applicability to SUD research."
440,Cancer Prevention and Control Clinical Trials Grant Program (R01 Clinical Trial Required),PAR-18-559,"Special district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"Through this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), the National Cancer Institute (NCI) invites applications that include investigator-initiated clinical trials related to the programmatic interests of the NCI Division of Cancer Prevention and the NCI Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences as based on their scientific missions. Applications for clinical trials submitted under this FOA should be hypothesis-driven, have clearly described aims and objectives, and have the potential to reduce the burden of cancer through improvements in knowledge, early detection and diagnosis, prevention, healthcare delivery, quality of life, and/or survivorship related to cancer; with such attributes, the proposed studies should also have the potential to positively impact clinical practice and/or public health."
441,National Cancer Institute's Investigator-Initiated Early Phase Clinical Trials for Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis (R01 Clinical Trials Required),PAR-18-560,"Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to solicit research projects that implement early phase (Phase 0, I, and II) investigator-initiated clinical trials of relevance to the research mission of the National Cancer Institutes (NCI) Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis (DCTD) programs.  Applicants are strongly encouraged to consult the DCTD website, https://dctd.cancer.gov/,  to learn more about the various program goals, research priorities and strategies developed to fight cancer.  Applications submitted to this FOA must include studies that meet the National Institutes of Health (NIH) definition of a clinical trial (see NOT-OD-15-015 for details) and provide specific clinical trial information as described in this FOA."
442,Academic-Industrial Partnerships for Translation of Technologies for Diagnosis and Treatment (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-530,"Special district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSmall businessesIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to stimulate efforts to translate scientific discoveries and engineering developments into methods or tools that address problems in basic research to understand disease, or in applied research to assess risk, detect, prevent, diagnose, treat, and/or manage disease.   The rationale is to deliver new capabilities to meet evolving requirements for technologies and methods relevant to the advance of research and delivery of care in pre-clinical, clinical and non-clinical settings, domestic or foreign, for conditions and diseases within the missions of participating institutes.    This FOA specifies a partnership structure that is expected to help bridge gaps in knowledge and experience by engaging the strengths of academic, industrial, and other investigators.   The partners on each application should establish an inter-disciplinary, multi-institutional research team to work in strategic alliance to implement a coherent strategy to develop and translate a solution to their chosen problem. They are expected to plan, design, and validate that it is will be suitable for end users.   Each partnership should include at least one academic and one industrial organization.   Each partnership should plan to transition a technology, method, assay, device, and/or system from a demonstration of possibility to a status useful in the chosen setting. Funding may be requested to enhance, adapt, optimize, validate, and otherwise translate technologies that address problems in biology, pathology, risk assessment, diagnosis, treatment, and/or monitoring of disease status.  This FOA defines innovation as likelihood to deliver a new capability to end users..    This FOA will support clinical trials that test functionality, or validate performance in the chosen setting. This FOA is not intended to support commercial production, basic research projects, or straight clinical trials that lack translation as the primary motivation"
443,Early-life Factors and Cancer Development Later in Life (R03 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-531,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsSmall businessesState governmentsCounty governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to stimulate research focused on the role of early-life factors (maternal-paternal, in utero, birth and infancy, puberty, adolescence, and young adult years) in cancer development later in life. Given that the current emerging evidence from limited research indicates a potentially important role for early-life events and exposures in cancer development, it is necessary to better understand 1) the early-life (maternal-paternal, in utero, birth and infancy, puberty, adolescence, and young adult years) factors that are associated with later cancer development; 2) how early-life factors mediate biological processes relevant to carcinogenesis; and 3) whether predictive markers for cancer risk based on what happens biologically at early life can be measured and developed for use in cancer prevention strategies. Markers that predict malignancy or pre-malignant conditions would allow assessment of early-life exposures with relevant outcomes without having to wait decades for cancer development. Ultimately, a better mechanistic understanding of how early-life events and exposures contribute to the etiology of cancer later in life will allow for the development of effective interventions during pregnancy or early life that may have a profound impact on cancer prevention."
444,Early-life Factors and Cancer Development Later in Life (R21 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-532,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to stimulate research focused on the role of early-life factors (maternal-paternal, in utero, birth and infancy, puberty, adolescence, and young adult years) in cancer development later in life. Given that the current emerging evidence from limited research indicates a potentially important role for early-life events and exposures in cancer development, it is necessary to better understand 1) the early-life (maternal-paternal, in utero, birth and infancy, puberty, adolescence, and young adult years) factors that are associated with later cancer development; 2) how early-life factors mediate biological processes relevant to carcinogenesis; and 3) whether predictive markers for cancer risk based on what happens biologically at early life can be measured and developed for use in cancer prevention strategies. Markers that predict malignancy or pre-malignant conditions would allow assessment of early-life exposures with relevant outcomes without having to wait decades for cancer development. Ultimately, a better mechanistic understanding of how early-life events and exposures contribute to the etiology of cancer later in life will allow for the development of effective interventions during pregnancy or early life that may have a profound impact on cancer prevention."
445,Early-life Factors and Cancer Development Later in Life (R01 - Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-529,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA)is to stimulate research focused on the role of early-life factors (maternal-paternal, in utero, birth and infancy, puberty, adolescence, and young adult years) in cancer development later in life. Given that the current emerging evidence from limited research indicates a potentially important role for early-life events and exposures in cancer development, it is necessary to better understand 1) the early-life (maternal-paternal, in utero, birth and infancy, puberty, adolescence, and young adult years) factors that are associated with later cancer development; 2) how early-life factors mediate biological processes relevant to carcinogenesis; and 3) whether predictive markers for cancer risk based on what happens biologically at early life can be measured and developed for use in cancer prevention strategies. Markers that predict malignancy or pre-malignant conditions would allow assessment of early-life exposures with relevant outcomes without having to wait decades for cancer development. Ultimately, a better mechanistic understanding of how early-life events and exposures contribute to the etiology of cancer later in life will allow for the development of effective interventions during pregnancy or early life that may have a profound impact on cancer prevention."
446,Community Partnerships to Advance Research (CPAR) (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-381,"Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages researchers to partner with community groups, using Community Engaged Research (CEnR) methodologies that will enhance relationships and lead to better intervention development and positive health outcomes."
447,Advancing Basic Neurobiology Toward Translation Through Assay Development (R01 Clinical Trials Not Allowed),PAR-18-505,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsState governmentsCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages research grant applications to develop novel, robust assays to reveal changes in neuronal and/or glial function.  The goal is to adapt state-of-the-art measures of basic cellular processes or molecular events that are key mediators of nervous system function into phenotypic assays, with the intent to probe mechanisms or perturbations in an unbiased and efficient manner.  These novel assays would provide opportunities to measure neurobiological endpoints to accelerate basic discovery and support target identification and therapeutic development efforts."
448,Self-Management for Health in Chronic Conditions (R15 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PA-18-474,"Independent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that seeks to build the science of self-management for health in chronic conditions. This FOA focuses on self-management as a mainstream science to reduce the burden of chronic illnesses/conditions.
449,Self-Management for Health in Chronic Conditions (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-384,"Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that seeks to build the science of self-management for health in chronic conditions. This FOA focuses on self-management as a mainstream science to reduce the burden of chronic illnesses/conditions.
450,Biobehavioral and Technological Interventions to Attenuate Cognitive Decline in Individuals with Cognitive Impairment or Dementia (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-347,"Special district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research focused on biobehavioral or technological interventions to attenuate cognitive decline in individuals with dementia (such as Alzheimers disease, Lewy body dementia, vascular dementia), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), or disease- or age-related cognitive decline. There is particular interest in interventions that can be implemented in community settings by the affected individual, informal caregivers, or others in the community. Research to inform the development of such interventions is also of interest, as well as research examining underlying mechanisms and biomarkers associated with response to interventions. It is anticipated that the results of this research will help affected individuals maintain independence and quality of life, improve their ability to perform activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), and additionally help to reduce stress, burden, and other poor outcomes in their caregivers."
451,Community Partnerships to Advance Research (CPAR) (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-377,"Special district governmentsState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages researchers to partner with community groups, using Community Engaged Research (CEnR) methodologies that will enhance relationships and lead to better intervention development and positive health outcomes."
452,Self-Management for Health in Chronic Conditions (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-376,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsSmall businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that seeks to build the science of self-management for health in chronic conditions. This FOA focuses on self-management as a mainstream science to reduce the burden of chronic illnesses/conditions.
453,Biobehavioral and Technological Interventions to Attenuate Cognitive Decline in Individuals with Cognitive Impairment or Dementia (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-348,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research focused on biobehavioral or technological interventions to attenuate cognitive decline in individuals with dementia (such as Alzheimers disease, Lewy body dementia, vascular dementia), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), or disease- or age-related cognitive decline. There is particular interest in interventions that can be implemented in community settings by the affected individual, informal caregivers, or others in the community. Research to inform the development of such interventions is also of interest, as well as research examining underlying mechanisms and biomarkers associated with response to interventions. It is anticipated that the results of this research will help affected individuals maintain independence and quality of life, improve their ability to perform activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), and additionally help to reduce stress, burden, and other poor outcomes in their caregivers."
454,"End-of-Life and Palliative Care Health Literacy: Improving Outcomes in Serious, Advanced Illness  (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-499,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governments",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) seeks to stimulate research focused on identification of the key barriers to effective end-of-life and palliative care (EOLPC) health literacy in diverse settings and populations, and to create novel strategies, interventions, and models of care to improve EOLPC health literacy, with the goal of improving outcomes for individuals with serious, advanced illness and their families and caregivers."
455,"End-of-Life and Palliative Care Health Literacy: Improving Outcomes in Serious, Advanced Illness  (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-498,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCounty governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) seeks to stimulate research focused on identification of the key barriers to effective end-of-life and palliative care (EOLPC) health literacy in diverse settings and populations, and to create novel strategies, interventions, and models of care to improve EOLPC health literacy, with the goal of improving outcomes for individuals with serious, advanced illness and their families and caregivers."
456,BRAIN Initiative: Targeted BRAIN Circuits Planning Projects  TargetedBCPP (R34 - Clinical Trials Not Allowed),RFA-NS-18-014,"Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This R34 FOA solicits applications that offer a limited scope of aims and an approach that will establish feasibility, validity, or other technically qualifying results that, if successful, would support, enable, and/or lay the groundwork for a potential, subsequent Targeted Brain Circuits Projects - TargetedBCP R01, as described in the companion FOA (RFA-NS-18-009). Applications should be exploratory research projects that use innovative, methodologically-integrated approaches to understand how circuit activity gives rise to mental experience and behavior."
457,Using Information Technology to Support Systematic Screening and Treatment of Depression in Cancer (R01  Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-493,"State governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages research to understand how information technology (IT) can support systematic screening and treatment of depression in cancer patients in a variety of oncology practice settings. The goals of this FOA are to: identify new, IT-enabled delivery models that support systematic screening and treatment of depression in cancer patients; test the feasibility of implementing these new delivery models in a variety of oncology practice settings, especially those serving under-served populations; and test the effectiveness of these new delivery models, and their components, in a variety of oncology practice settings, especially those serving under-served populations."
458,Using Information Technology to Support Systematic Screening and Treatment of Depression in Cancer (R21  Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-492,"County governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsSmall businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) encourages research to understand how information technology (IT) can support systematic screening and treatment of depression in cancer patients in a variety of oncology practice settings. The goals of this FOA are to: identify new, IT-enabled delivery models that support systematic screening and treatment of depression in cancer patients; test the feasibility of implementing these new delivery models in a variety of oncology practice settings, especially those serving under-served populations; and test the effectiveness of these new delivery models, and their components, in a variety of oncology practice settings, especially those serving under-served populations."
459,The NCI Transition Career Development Award (K22 - Independent Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-467,"State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) represents the continuation of an NCI program to facilitate the transition of investigators in mentored, non-independent cancer research positions to independent faculty cancer research positions. This goal is achieved by providing protected time through salary and research support for the initial 3 years of the first independent tenure-track faculty position, or its equivalent, beginning at the time when the candidate starts a tenure-track faculty position."
460,The NCI Transition Career Development Award (K22 Independent Clinical Trial Required),PAR-18-466,"State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) represents the continuation of an NCI program to facilitate the transition of investigators in mentored, non-independent cancer research positions to independent faculty cancer research positions. This goal is achieved by providing protected time through salary and research support for the initial 3 years of the first independent tenure-track faculty position, or its equivalent, beginning at the time when the candidate starts a tenure-track faculty position."
461,Cancer Research Education Grants Program - Curriculum or Methods Development (R25),PAR-18-476,"City or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationSpecial district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH.  The over-arching goal of this NCI R25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nations biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.  To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on Curriculum or Methods Development. Applications are encouraged that propose innovative, state-of-the-art programs that address the cause, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of cancer, rehabilitation from cancer, and the continuing care of cancer patients and the families of cancer patients, in accordance with the overall mission of the NCI."
462,Cancer Research Education Grants Program - Courses for Skills Development (R25),PAR-18-477,"Small businessesIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH.  The over-arching goal of this NCI R25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nations biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs. To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on     Courses for Skills Development. Applications are encouraged that propose innovative, state-of-the-art programs that address the cause, diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of cancer, rehabilitation from cancer, or the continuing care of cancer patients and the families of cancer patients"
463,Cancer Research Education Grants Program - Research Experiences (R25),PAR-18-478,"State governmentsCounty governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The NIH Research Education Program (R25) supports research education activities in the mission areas of the NIH.  The over-arching goal of this NCI R25 program is to support educational activities that complement and/or enhance the training of a workforce to meet the nations biomedical, behavioral and clinical research needs.  To accomplish the stated over-arching goal, this FOA will support creative educational activities with a primary focus on Research Experiences. Applications are encouraged that propose innovative, state-of-the-art programs that address the cause, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of cancer, rehabilitation from cancer, and the continuing care of cancer patients and the families of cancer patients, in accordance with the overall mission of the NCI."
464,Obesity and Asthma: Awareness and Self- Management (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-379,"State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that examines the relationship between asthma, obesity and self-management.  It seeks to build the science of obesity, asthma, and self-management awareness."
465,Multi-Site Studies for System-Level Implementation of Substance Use Prevention and Treatment Services (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-222,"Small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,"As part of the Collaborative Research on Addiction at NIH (CRAN) initiative, NIDA, NIAAA, and NCI join to issue this FOA. The purpose of this FOA is to support the development and testing of interventions, models, and/or frameworks that examine system-level implementation of evidence-based interventions, guidelines, or principles to improve the delivery, uptake, quality, and sustainability of substance use prevention and treatment interventions and services. "
466,Multi-Site Pilot and Feasibility Studies for System-Level Implementation of Substance Use Prevention and Treatment Services (R34 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-223,"Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsCity or township governmentsSmall businessesState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"As part of the Collaborative Research on Addiction at NIH (CRAN) initiative, NIDA and NIAAA join to issue this FOA. The purpose of this FOA is to support the development and testing of interventions, models, and/or frameworks that examine system-level implementation of evidence-based interventions, guidelines, or principles to improve the delivery, uptake, quality, and sustainability of substance use prevention and treatment interventions and services.   "
467,Research on Autism Spectrum (R01- Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-401,"Private institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research grant applications to support research designed to elucidate the etiology, epidemiology, diagnosis, and optimal means of service delivery in relation to Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD)."
468,Research on Autism Spectrum (R21- Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-400,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research grant applications to support research designed to elucidate the etiology, epidemiology, diagnosis, and optimal means of service delivery in relation to Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD)."
469,Research on Autism Spectrum (R03-Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-399,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsState governmentsSmall businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research grant applications to support research designed to elucidate the etiology, epidemiology, diagnosis, and optimal means of service delivery in relation to Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD)."
470,Multidisciplinary Studies of HIV/AIDS and Aging (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-189,"City or township governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governments",National Institutes of Health,"This FOA encourages applications at the intersection of HIV and aging by addressing two overarching objectives: 1) to improve understanding of biological, clinical, and socio-behavioral aspects of aging through the lens of HIV infection and its treatment; and 2) to improve approaches for testing, prevention, and treatment of HIV infection, and management of HIV-related comorbidities, co-infections, and complications in different populations and cultural settings by applying our current understanding of aging science. Applications appropriate to this FOA should be consistent with the scientific priorities outlined by the NIH Office of AIDS Research (OAR) as described in NOT-OD-15-137."
471,Multidisciplinary Studies of HIV/AIDS and Aging (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-190,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)County governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This FOA encourages exploratory/developmental research applications at the intersection of HIV and aging by addressing two overarching objectives: 1) to improve understanding of biological, clinical, and socio-behavioral aspects of aging through the lens of HIV infection and its treatment; and 2) to improve approaches for testing, prevention, and treatment of HIV infection, and management of HIV-related comorbidities, co-infections, and complications in different populations and cultural settings by applying our current understanding of aging science. Applications appropriate to this FOA should be consistent with the scientific priorities outlined by the NIH Office of AIDS Research (OAR) as described in NOT-OD-15-137."
472,Healthy Habits: Timing for Developing Sustainable Healthy Behaviors in Children and Adolescents  (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-355,"Small businessesIndependent school districtsSpecial district governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), issued by the National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR), is intended to encourage Research Project Grant (R01) applications that employ innovative research to identify mechanisms of influence and/or promote positive sustainable health behavior(s) in children and youth (birth to age 18). Positive health behaviors may include: developing healthy sleep patterns, developing effective self-regulation strategies, adaptive decision-making in risk situations, practicing proper dental hygiene, eating a balanced and nutritious diet, engaging in age-appropriate physical activity and/or participating in healthy relationships. Applications to promote positive health behavior(s) should target social and cultural contexts, including, but not limited to: schools, families, communities, population, food industry, age-appropriate learning tools and games, social media, social networking, technology and mass media. Topics to be addressed in this announcement include: effective, sustainable processes for influencing young people to make healthy behavior choices; identification of the appropriate stage of influence for learning sustainable lifelong health behaviors; the role of technology and new media in promoting healthy behavior; identification of factors that support healthy behavior development in vulnerable populations; and, identification of mechanisms and mediators that are common to the development of a range of habitual health behaviors. Given the many factors involved in developing sustainable health behaviors, applications from multidisciplinary team that include nurse scientists are strongly encouraged. The goal of this FOA is to promote research that identifies and enhances processes that promote sustainable positive behavior or changes social and cultural norms that influence health and future health behaviors."
473,Healthy Habits: Timing for Developing Sustainable Healthy Behaviors in Children and Adolescents (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-354,"Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA), issued by the National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR), is to encourage Exploratory/Developmental Research Grant (R21) applications that employ innovative research to identify mechanisms of influence and/or promote positive sustainable health behavior(s) in children and youth (birth to age 18). Positive health behaviors may include: developing healthy sleep patterns, developing effective self-regulation strategies, adaptive decision-making in risk situations, practicing proper dental hygiene, eating a balanced and nutritious diet, engaging in age-appropriate physical activity and/or participating in healthy relationships. Applications to promote positive health behavior(s) should target social and cultural contexts, including, but not limited to: schools, families, communities, population, food industry, age-appropriate learning tools and games, social media, social networking, technology and mass media. Topics to be addressed in this announcement include: effective, sustainable processes for influencing young people to make healthy behavior choices; identification of the appropriate stage of influence for learning sustainable lifelong health behaviors; the role of technology and new media in promoting healthy behavior; identification of factors that support healthy behavior development in vulnerable populations; and, identification of mechanisms and mediators that are common to the development of a range of habitual health behaviors. Given the many factors involved in developing sustainable health behaviors, applications from multidisciplinary team that include nurse scientists are strongly encouraged. The goal of this FOA is to promote research that identifies and enhances processes that promote sustainable positive behavior or changes social and cultural norms that influence health and future health behaviors."
474,A Family-Centered Self-Management of Chronic Conditions (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-383,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsState governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that seeks to build the science of family-centered self-management (FCSM) in chronic conditions.
475,Family-Centered Self-Management of Chronic Conditions (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-18-380,"Small businessesCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to encourage research that seeks to build the science of family-centered self-management (FCSM) in chronic conditions.
476,"mHealth Tools for Individuals with Chronic Conditions to Promote Effective Patient-Provider Communication, Adherence to Treatment and Self-Management (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-386,"Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Special district governmentsState governmentsCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)For profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this initiative is to stimulate research utilizing Mobile Health (mHealth) tools aimed at the improvement of effective patientprovider communication, adherence to treatment and self-management of chronic diseases. With the rapid expansion of cellular networks and substantial advancements in Smartphone technologies, it is now possible - and affordable - to transmit patient data digitally from remote areas to specialists in urban areas, receive real-time feedback, and capture that consultation in a database. These mHealth tools, therefore, may facilitate more timely and effective patient-provider communication through education communication around goal setting, treatment reminders, feedback on patient progress, and may improve health outcomes. This announcement encourages the development and testing of interventions utilizing mHealth technologies. There is also an interest in studying mHealth technologies in underserved populations."
477,"mHealth Tools for Individuals with Chronic Conditions to Promote Effective Patient-Provider Communication, Adherence to Treatment and Self-Management (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-389,"Independent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this initiative is to stimulate research utilizing Mobile Health (mHealth) tools aimed at the improvement of effective patientprovider communication, adherence to treatment and self-management of chronic diseases. With the rapid expansion of cellular networks and substantial advancements in Smartphone technologies, it is now possible - and affordable - to transmit patient data digitally from remote areas to specialists in urban areas, receive real-time feedback, and capture that consultation in a database. These mHealth tools, therefore, may facilitate more timely and effective patient-provider communication through education communication around goal setting, treatment reminders, feedback on patient progress, and may improve health outcomes. This announcement encourages the development and testing of interventions utilizing mHealth technologies. There is also an interest in studying mHealth technologies in underserved populations."
478,NCI Transition Career Development Award to Promote Diversity (K22 - No Clinical Trials),PAR-18-366,"Small businessesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsState governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of the NCI Transition Career Development Award to Promote Diversity is to assist postdoctoral fellows or individuals in equivalent positions to transition to positions of assistant professor or equivalent and initiate a successful biomedical career as an independent research scientist.
479,NCI Transition Career Development Award to Promote Diversity (K22 Clinical Trial Required) ,PAR-18-367,"Independent school districtsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NCI Transition Career Development Award to Promote Diversity is to assist postdoctoral fellows or individuals in equivalent positions to transition to positions of assistant professor or equivalent and initiate a successful biomedical career as an independent research scientist. To this end, the Diversity Training Branch (DTB), within the Center to Reduce Cancer Health Disparities (CRCHD) (http://crchd.cancer.gov/) invites applications from research scientists in postdoctoral positions or equivalent who are from backgrounds nationally underrepresented in biomedical, behavioral, clinical, and/or social sciences. This award will provide ""protected time"" through salary and research support for 3 years beginning at the time when the candidate starts a tenure-track faculty position."
480,NCI Mentored Research Scientist Development Award to Promote Diversity (K01),PAR-18-364,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsCity or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsSmall businessesState governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NCI Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (K01) is to enhance the diversity of the pool of the NCI-funded cancer research workforce by supporting eligible individuals from groups that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in the biomedical, behavioral, social and clinical sciences. This FOA provides salary and research support for a sustained period of ""protected time"" for intensive research career development under the guidance of an experienced mentor."
481,Transition to Independent Environmental Health Research (TIEHR) Career Transition Award (K01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed),PAR-18-291,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,The Transitions to Independent Environmental Health (TIEHR) Career Award is a 3-year bridge scholar development program for newly independent faculty who intend to pursue research careers in environmental health sciences. At the conclusion of the career development period the candidates are expected to demonstrate they can successfully compete for research funding in the environmental health sciences.
482,Transition to Independent Environmental Health Research (TIEHR) Career Transition Award (K01 Clinical Trial Required),PAR-18-261,"Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,The Transitions to Independent Environmental Health (TIEHR) Career Award is a 3-year bridge scholar development program for newly independent faculty who intend to pursue research careers in environmental health sciences. At the conclusion of the career development period the candidates are expected to demonstrate they can successfully compete for research funding in the environmental health sciences.
483,"Mechanisms, Models, Measurement, and Management in Pain Research (R21 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-159,"Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)State governmentsSpecial district governmentsSmall businessesCounty governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to inform the scientific community of the pain research interests of the various Institutes and Centers (ICs) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and to stimulate and foster a wide range of basic, clinical, and translational studies on pain as they relate to the missions of these ICs. New advances are needed in every area of pain research, from the micro perspective of molecular sciences to the macro perspective of behavioral and social sciences. Although great strides have been made in some areas, such as the identification of neural pathways of pain, the experience of pain and the challenge of treatment have remained uniquely individual and unsolved. Furthermore, our understanding of how and why individuals transition to a chronic pain state after an acute injury is limited. Research to address these issues conducted by interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research teams is strongly encouraged, as is research from underrepresented, minority, disabled, or women investigators."
484,"Mechanisms, Models, Measurement, and Management in Pain Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional)",PA-18-141,"State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districtsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to inform the scientific community of the pain research interests of the various Institutes and Centers (ICs) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and to stimulate and foster a wide range of basic, clinical, and translational studies on pain as they relate to the missions of these ICs. New advances are needed in every area of pain research, from the micro perspective of molecular sciences to the macro perspective of behavioral and social sciences. Although great strides have been made in some areas, such as the identification of neural pathways of pain, the experience of pain and the challenge of treatment have remained uniquely individual and unsolved. Furthermore, our understanding of how and why individuals transition to a chronic pain state after an acute injury is limited. Research to address these issues conducted by interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research teams is strongly encouraged, as is research from underrepresented, minority, disabled, or women investigators."
485,NCI Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award to Promote Diversity (K08 - No Independent Clinical Trials),PAR-18-337,"County governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NCI Mentored Clinical Scientist Career Development Award (K08) program is to prepare individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the nation. This program represents the continuation of a long-standing NIH program that provides support and protected time to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of biomedical and behavioral research, including translational research. The NCI-sponsored K08 award is specifically designed to promote career development of clinical scientists from backgrounds that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in health-related science and for those who are committed to a career in basic biomedical, behavioral or translational cancer research, including research on cancer health disparities. The expectation is that through this sustained period of research career development and training, awardees will develop enhanced research capabilities for cancer research careers and be better prepared to compete for research project grants (e.g. R03, R21, or R01) funding."
486,NCI Mentored Clinical Scientist Research Career Development Award to Promote Diversity (K08 - Clinical Trials Required),PAR-18-336,"County governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesSmall businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the NCI Mentored Clinical Scientist Career Development Award (K08) program is to prepare individuals for careers that have a significant impact on the health-related research needs of the nation. This program represents the continuation of a long-standing NIH program that provides support and protected time to individuals with a clinical doctoral degree for an intensive, supervised research career development experience in the fields of biomedical and behavioral research, including translational research. The NCI-sponsored K08 award is specifically designed to promote career development of clinical scientists from backgrounds that have been shown to be nationally underrepresented in health-related science and for those who are committed to a career in basic biomedical, behavioral or translational cancer research, including research on cancer health disparities. The expectation is that through this sustained period of research career development and training, awardees will develop enhanced research capabilities for cancer research careers and be better prepared to compete for research project grants (e.g. R03, R21, or R01) funding."
487,Testing Interventions for Health-Enhancing Physical Activity (R01 - Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-324,"City or township governmentsIndependent school districtsFor profit organizations other than small businessesSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesState governmentsCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to fund highly innovative and promising research that tests multi-level physical activity intervention programs acting on at least two levels of the socio-ecological model and designed to increase health-enhancing physical activity: 1) in persons or groups that can benefit from such activity; and 2) that could be made scalable and sustainable for broad use across the nation.  This FOA provides support for up to 5 years for research planning, intervention delivery, and follow-up activities."
488,"Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs) in Human Cancers for years 2018, 2019 and 2020 (P50)",PAR-18-313,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsState governmentsSmall businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Independent school districts",National Institutes of Health,"This funding opportunity announcement (FOA) invites applications for P50 Research Center Grants for Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs). The program will fund P50 SPORE grants to support state-of-the-art investigator-initiated translational research that will contribute to improved prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of an organ-specific cancer or a related group of cancers. For the purpose of this FOA, cancers derived from the same organ system (i.e., a group of organs that perform a common function) are considered related. Examples of such organ systems include gastrointestinal, endocrine and other biological systems. Other programmatically appropriate groups of cancers may include those centered around a common biological mechanism critical for promoting tumorigenesis and/or cancer progression in organ sites that belong to different organ systems. For example, a SPORE may focus on cancers caused by the same infectious agent or cancers sustained and promoted by dysregulation of a common signaling pathway. In addition, a SPORE may focus on cross-cutting themes such as pediatric cancers or cancer health disparities. The research supported through this program must be translational and must stem from research on human biology using cellular, molecular, structural, biochemical, and/or genetic experimental approaches. SPORE projects must have the goal of reaching a translational human endpoint within the project period of the grant."
489,Developing Interventions for Health-Enhancing Physical Activity (R21/R33 - Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-18-307,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsSmall businessesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsSpecial district governmentsCity or township governmentsCounty governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is to fund highly innovative and promising research aimed at developing multi-level physical activity intervention programs acting on at least two levels of the socioecological model and designed to increase health-enhancing physical activity: 1) in persons or groups that can benefit from such activity; and 2) that could be made scalable and sustainable for broad use across the nation. This FOA provides support for up to two years (R21 phase) for research planning activities and feasibility studies, followed by a possible transition to expanded research support (R33 phase) for optimizing the intervention and conducting larger-scale feasibility studies. Transition to the R33 depends on the completion of applicant-defined milestones, as well as program priorities and the availability of funds."
490,DoD USAMRDC FY18-FY22 Broad Agency Announcement for Extramural Medical Research,W81XWH18SBAA1,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Dept. of the Army -- USAMRAA,"The United States Army Medical and Materiel Command’s (USAMRDC) mission is to provide solutions to medical problems of importance to the American Service member at home and abroad, as well as to the general public at large. The scope of the effort and the priorities attached to specific projects are influenced by changes in military and civilian medical science and technology, operational requirements, military threat assessments, and national defense strategies. Extramural research and development programs play a vital role in the fulfillment of the objectives established by the USAMRDC. General information on the USAMRDC can be obtained at http://mrdc.amedd.army.mil/. The USAMRDC Fiscal Year 18 – Fiscal Year 22 (FY18-FY22) Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) is intended to solicit extramural research and development ideas and is issued under the provisions of the Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-369), as implemented in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 6.102(d)(2) and 35.016 and in DoD Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARS) 22.315. In accordance with FAR 35.016, projects funded under the BAA must be for basic and applied research to support scientific study and experimentation directed towards advancing the state of the art or increasing knowledge or understanding rather than focusing on development of a specific system or hardware solution. Research and development funded through the BAA are intended and expected to benefit and inform both military and civilian medical practice and knowledge. The selection process is highly competitive and the quantity of meaningful submissions (both pre-proposals/pre-applications and full proposals/applications) received typically exceeds the number of awards that available funding can support. The BAA provides a general description of the USAMRMC's research and development programs, including research areas of interest, evaluation and selection criteria, pre-proposal/pre-application and full proposal/application preparation instructions, and general administrative information. Specific submission information and additional administrative requirements can be found in the document titled ""General Submission Instructions"" available in Grants.gov along with the BAA. The FY18-FY22 USAMRDC BAA is continuously open for a 5-year period, from October 1, 2017 through September 30, 2022, at 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time. Submission of a pre-proposal/pre-application is required and must be submitted through theelectronic Biomedical Research Application Portal (eBRAP) (https://eBRAP.org/). Pre-proposals/pre-applications may be submitted at any time throughout the 5-year period. If the USAMRDC is interested in receiving a full proposal/application, the Principal Investigator will be sent an invitation to submit via eBRAP. A full proposal/application must be submitted through Grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov/). Invited full proposals/applications can be submitted under this FY18-FY22 BAA through September 30, 2022."
491,Multilevel Interventions in Cancer Care Delivery: Follow-up to Abnormal Screening Tests (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-17-495,"Special district governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesFor profit organizations other than small businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationState governments",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) encourages applications that develop and test multilevel interventions to improve follow-up to abnormal screening tests for breast, cervical, colorectal, or lung cancers. Improving follow-up to abnormal screening tests is dependent on factors at the patient, provider, clinical team, clinic, healthcare institution, or community setting levels. Appropriate applications for this FOA should propose to intervene at two or more levels, and measure outcomes at three or more levels, while accounting for interactions that occur between and across levels."
492,Implementing the Most Successful Interventions to Improve HIV/AIDS Outcomes in U.S. Communities (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-17-490,"County governmentsSmall businessesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businessesSpecial district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Independent school districtsState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Public housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health," The goal of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to translate and adapt the most successful global, evidence-based HIV-related service provision strategies to marginalized populations in the United States (U.S.) with a substantial risk of HIV-infection and AIDS. The ultimate goal, is to produce improvements in HIV-related health outcomes in these key populations through strategies that successfully and durably reach them with timely HIV testing, prevention and treatment technologies that lead to the achievement of the UNAIDS 90-90-90 benchmarks: by 2020, 90 percent of all people living with HIV will know their HIV status, 90 percent of all people with diagnosed HIV infection will receive sustained antiretroviral therapy and 90 percent of all people receiving antiretroviral therapy will have viral suppression."
493,Implementing the Most Successful Interventions to Improve HIV/AIDS Outcomes in U.S. Communities (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PAR-17-491,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Small businessesState governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Special district governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,"The goal of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to translate and adapt the most successful global, evidence-based HIV-related service provision strategies to marginalized populations in the United States (U.S.) with a substantial risk of HIV-infection and AIDS. The ultimate goal, is to produce improvements in HIV-related health outcomes in these key populations through strategies that successfully and durably reach them with timely HIV testing, prevention and treatment technologies that lead to the achievement of the UNAIDS 90-90-90 benchmarks: by 2020, 90 percent of all people living with HIV will know their HIV status, 90 percent of all people with diagnosed HIV infection will receive sustained antiretroviral therapy and 90 percent of all people receiving antiretroviral therapy will have viral suppression."
494,Addressing Chronic Wound Trajectories Through Social Genomics Research (R01 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-17-492,"City or township governmentsSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationFor profit organizations other than small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Public and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research that applies a social genomics approach to chronic wound risk, presence, progression, and healing. The field of social genomics focuses on how the social environment influences gene expression, and how this gene expression may in turn impact health outcomes. Chronic wounds (e.g., diabetic ulcers, venous or arterial ulcers) are multidimensional and, as such, there is benefit to a holistic approach that goes beyond a focus on the wound (i.e., repairing the skin and underlying tissue) to include an approach that focuses on the person with the wound. A better understanding of social environmental factors (positive and negative) and associated molecular mechanisms is needed to advance therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing chronic wound risk in addition to improving healing outcomes and quality of life."
495,Addressing Chronic Wound Trajectories Through Social Genomics Research (R21 Clinical Trial Optional),PA-17-493,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsIndependent school districtsSmall businessesSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Private institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governments",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of this funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to stimulate clinical research that applies a social genomics approach to chronic wound risk, presence, progression, and healing. The field of social genomics focuses on how the social environment influences gene expression, and how this gene expression may in turn impact health outcomes. Chronic wounds (e.g., diabetic ulcers, venous or arterial ulcers) are multidimensional and, as such, there is benefit to a holistic approach that goes beyond a focus on the wound (i.e., repairing the skin and underlying tissue) to include an approach that focuses on the person with the wound. A better understanding of social environmental factors (positive and negative) and associated molecular mechanisms is needed to advance therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing chronic wound risk in addition to improving healing outcomes and quality of life."
496,New Onset Depressive Symptoms in Acute Illness (R01 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) ,PA-17-488,"Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSmall businessesCounty governmentsSpecial district governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesIndependent school districtsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)State governmentsPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authorities",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage research on the etiology of depressive symptoms that occur in the context of a sudden onset acute illness. Although it is known that depressive symptoms may linger and affect functional recovery long after physical recovery from an acute insult, there is a gap in knowledge about the pathobiology that may underlie these incident depressive symptoms. A greater understanding of the etiological factors that contribute to and/or mitigate a trajectory of depressive symptoms may inform a personalized, holistic approach to managing recovery from acute illness."
497,New Onset Depressive Symptoms in Acute Illness (R21 Clinical Trial Not Allowed) ,PA-17-487,"County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)For profit organizations other than small businessesState governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsIndependent school districtsPrivate institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)",National Institutes of Health,"The purpose of the funding opportunity announcement (FOA) is to encourage research on the etiology of depressive symptoms that occur in the context of a sudden onset acute illness. Although it is known that depressive symptoms may linger and affect functional recovery long after physical recovery from an acute insult, there is a gap in knowledge about the pathobiology that may underlie these incident depressive symptoms. A greater understanding of the etiological factors that contribute to and/or mitigate a trajectory of depressive symptoms may inform a personalized, holistic approach to managing recovery from acute illness."
498,Symptom Cluster Characterization in Chronic Conditions (R21),PA-17-461,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsIndependent school districtsCity or township governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)For profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this initiative is to encourage preclinical and clinical research and secondary data analysis on symptom cluster characterization that has potential to inform treatment and interventions that improve functional outcomes and quality of life in patients with chronic conditions.
499,Symptom Cluster Characterization in Chronic Conditions (R01),PA-17-462,"Private institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesCity or township governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Native American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Independent school districtsSmall businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationCounty governmentsOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Special district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businesses",National Institutes of Health,The purpose of this initiative is to encourage preclinical and clinical research and secondary data analysis on symptom cluster characterization that has potential to inform treatment and interventions that improve functional outcomes and quality of life in patients with chronic conditions.
500,"Biology of Lung, and Head and Neck Preneoplasias (R21)",PA-17-460,"Small businessesNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)City or township governmentsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)Private institutions of higher educationIndependent school districtsPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)County governmentsPublic and State controlled institutions of higher educationSpecial district governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationState governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) seeks applications investigating mechanistic and biological aspects of preneoplasia leading to lung, and head and neck (HN) cancers. Despite improved therapies and a deeper molecular understanding of lung and HN cancers, these tumors remain a major health problem in the United States and globally. While molecular markers of early injury to the aerodigestive epithelial field have been found, relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms that initiate these preneoplasias and drive their progression to invasive cancer. A functional understanding of the key molecular changes involved in the formation and progression of lung and HN preneoplasias will enhance our knowledge of oncogenic progression and accelerate development of effective preventive and therapeutic strategies."
501,"Biology of Lung, and Head and Neck Preneoplasias (R01)",PA-17-459,"Special district governmentsIndependent school districtsNative American tribal governments (Federally recognized)County governmentsNative American tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized tribal governments)Small businessesPrivate institutions of higher educationPublic housing authorities/Indian housing authoritiesNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationOthers (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)State governmentsFor profit organizations other than small businessesCity or township governmentsNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPublic and State controlled institutions of higher education",National Institutes of Health,"This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) seeks applications investigating mechanistic and biological aspects of preneoplasia leading to lung, and head and neck (HN) cancers. Despite improved therapies and a deeper molecular understanding of lung and HN cancers, these tumors remain a major health problem in the United States and globally. While molecular markers of early injury to the aerodigestive epithelial field have been found, relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms that initiate these preneoplasias and drive their progression to invasive cancer. A functional understanding of the key molecular changes involved in the formation and progression of lung and HN preneoplasias will enhance our knowledge of oncogenic progression and accelerate development of effective preventive and therapeutic strategies."
502,Paleo Perspectives on Climate Change,17-582,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The goal of research funded under the interdisciplinary P2C2 solicitation is to utilize key geological, chemical, atmospheric (gas in ice cores), and biological records of climate system variability to provide insights into the mechanisms and rate of change that characterized Earth's past climate variability, the sensitivity of Earth's climate system to changes in forcing, and the response of key components of the Earth system to these changes.  

Important scientific objectives of P2C2 are to: 1) provide comprehensive paleoclimate data sets that can serve as model test data sets analogous to instrumental observations; and 2) enable transformative syntheses of paleoclimate data and modeling outcomes to understand the response of the longer-term and higher magnitude variability of the climate system that is observed in the geological and cryospheric records. "
503,Marine Geology and Geophysics,PD-17-1620,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Marine Geology and Geophysics Core Program supports research on all aspects of the geology and geophysics of the present ocean basins and margins, as well as those of the Great Lakes.


The Program supports science that includes:


Structure, composition, tectonics, and evolution of the oceanic lithosphere
Paleoceanography, paleoclimate, and sea level change
Submarine volcanology, petrology and geochemistry of the oceanic crust and upper mantle
Marine hydrogeology, seeps and gas hydrates, water-rock interaction, and hydrothermal vent and fluid formation and geochemistry
Geochemical indicators of life operating below the seafloor
Marine sedimentology and coastal processes, stratigraphy, sediment transport, and diagenesis
Mid-ocean ridge spreading, back-arc rifting, transform processes, and ocean island/seamount formation and evolution
Submarine components of subduction zone systems and passive margins
Marine geohazards (e.g., earthquakes, faulting, mass wasting, geological aspects of tsunamis)


The Marine Geology and Geophysics Program is interested in supporting new ideas and cutting-edge research. It supports field, analytical, and laboratory experimental projects; methods development; modeling; and the re-analysis and/or synthesis of existing data. The Program interfaces with NSF programs across the Geosciences and across the Agency. For proposals that cross between Programs, proposers should contact the relevant Programs to seek guidance on submission."
504,Armament Technology Broad Agency Announcement,FA8651-17-S-0003,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Munitions Directorate,"This BAA will remain open through 12 March 2022 or until amended or superseded. It may be reissued and/or amended periodically, as needed. This BAA is set up in two parts: (1) Basic Open BAA, in which white papers may be submitted at any time during the open period, and (2) CALL BAA, in which proposal CALL announcements may be issued by the Government in FedBizOpps or Grants.gov under FA8651-17-S-0003. For these white papers, it is recommended prior to submission, each submitter consult with the technical POC to discuss the topic of interest. White papers may be submitted at any time during the open period to afrl.rwk.baaworkflow@us.af.mil IAW the instructions in Section IV."
505,NRL WIDE BROAD AGENCY ANNOUNCEMENT,N00173-17-S-BA01,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Naval Research Laboratory,The Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) is the Navy's corporate laboratory.  NRL conducts basic and applied research for the Navy in a variety of scientific and technical disciplines.  The basic research program is driven by perceptions about future requirements of the Navy.
506,Algorithms for Modern Power Systems,17-521,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Algorithms for Modern Power Systems (AMPS) program will support research projects to develop the next generation of mathematical and statistical algorithms for improvement of the security, reliability, and efficiency of the modern power grid. The program is a partnership between the Division of Mathematical Sciences (DMS) at the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Office of Electricity Delivery & Energy Reliability (OE) at the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)."
507,Applied Mathematics,PD-16-1266,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Applied Mathematics program supports mathematics research motivated by or having an effect on problems arising in science and engineering. Mathematical merit and novelty, as well as breadth and quality of impact on applications, are important factors. Proposals to develop critical mathematical techniques from individual investigators as well as from interdisciplinary teams are encouraged.


Proposals whose primary applications are in the biological sciences are inappropriate for Applied Mathematics, and should be submitted elsewhere; see the synopsis of the DMS Mathematical Biology program on that program's webpage for further guidance.


Conferences


Proposals to the Applied Mathematics program for conferences or workshops should be submitted through the program solicitation ""Conferences and Workshops in the Mathematical Sciences"" (link below). Principal Investigators should carefully read the program solicitation to obtain important information regarding the substance of proposals for conferences, workshops, summer/winter schools, and similar activities.


To facilitate timely notification of the availability of support:


Proposals for conferences, workshops, etc., to be held in the US must be submitted 8 months in advance of the conference date;
Proposals to support group travel to meetings outside the US must be submitted 12 months in advance of the meeting date;
Proposals for conferences, workshops, etc., whose budget request exceeds $50,000 must be submitted during the annual November 1-15 submission window.
"
508,Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Diseases,16-592,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Diseases program supports research on the ecological, evolutionary, and socio-ecological principles and processes that influence the transmission dynamics of infectious diseases. The central theme of submitted projects must be quantitative or computational understanding of pathogen transmission dynamics. The intent is discovery of principles of infectious disease transmission and testing mathematical or computational models that elucidate infectious disease systems. Projects should be broad, interdisciplinary efforts that go beyond the scope of typical studies. They should focus on the determinants and interactions of transmission among humans, non-human animals, and/or plants. This includes, for example, the spread of pathogens; the influence of environmental factors such as climate; the population dynamics and genetics of reservoir species or hosts; the cultural, social, behavioral, and economic dimensions of disease transmission. Research may be on zoonotic, environmentally-borne, vector-borne, or enteric diseases of either terrestrial or freshwater systems and organisms, including diseases of animals and plants, at any scale from specific pathogens to inclusive environmental systems. Proposals for research on disease systems of public health concern to developing countries are strongly encouraged, as are disease systems of concern in agricultural systems. Investigators are encouraged to develop the appropriate multidisciplinary team, including for example, modelers, bioinformaticians, genomics researchers, social scientists, economists, epidemiologists, entomologists, parasitologists, microbiologists, bacteriologists, virologists, pathologists or veterinarians, with the goal of integrating knowledge across disciplines to enhance our ability to predict and control infectious diseases."
509,Air Force Defense Research Sciences Conference and Workshop Support,BAA-AFRL-AFOSR-2016-0008,"Others (see text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility"" for clarification)Public and State controlled institutions of higher educationNonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationNonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher educationPrivate institutions of higher education",Air Force Office of Scientific Research,"The Air Force Office of Scientific Research manages the basic research investment for the U.S. Air Force. Conferences and workshops constitute key forums for research and technology interchange. We provide partial support for conferences and workshops as defined in the DoD Joint Travel Regulations in special areas of science that bring experts together to discuss recent research or educational findings, or to expose other researchers or advanced graduate students to new research and educational techniques in our areas of research interest. Our research interests are described in the most recent version of our general Broad Agency Announcement titled, “Research Interests of the Air Force Office of Scientific Research” posted on Grants.gov. We can only consider funding requests from U.S. institutions of higher education (IHE) or nonprofit organizations as described in 2 CFR 25.345, including foreign public entities and foreign organizations operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest. We do not award grants to organizations with a for-profit organization type. Our support for a workshop or conference is not an endorsement of any organization.Our financial support through grants for conferences and workshops is dependent on the availability of funds, Program Officer’s discretion, and certain other restrictions as described in the full announcement."
510,Focused Research Groups in the Mathematical Sciences,16-577,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The purpose of theFocused Research Group activity is to support collaborative groups employing innovative methods to solve specific, major research challenges in the mathematical sciences. A major challenge is an outstanding problem of significant importance that requires the focused and synergistic efforts of a collaborative group to solve, and whose solution will have wide impacts in the mathematical sciences and potentially in other areas. Groups may include, in addition to statisticians and mathematicians, researchers from other science and engineering disciplines appropriate for the proposed research. Risky projects are welcome. Interdisciplinary projects are welcome. Projects should be timely, limited in duration to up to three years, and substantial in their scope and impact for the mathematical sciences. Funded projects that show substantial progress in their first two years may be recommended for a creativity extension for up to an additional two years."
511,"Air Force Research Laboratory, Materials & Manufacturing Directorate, Functional Materials and Applications (AFRL/RXA) Two-Step Open BAA",BAA-AFRL-RQKMA-2016-0007,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force -- Research Lab,"Air Force Research Laboratory, Materials & Manufacturing Directorate is soliciting White Papers and potentially technical and cost proposals under this two-step Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) that is open for a period of five (5) years.  Functional Materials technologies that are of interest to the Air Force range from materials and scientific discovery through technology development and transition, and support the needs of the Functional Materials and Applications mission.  Descriptors of Materials and Manufacturing Directorate technology interests are presented in the context of functional materials core technical competencies and applications. Applicable NAICS codes are 541711 and 541712."
512,Computational Mathematics,PD-16-1271,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Supports mathematical research in areas of science where computation plays a central and essential role, emphasizing analysis, development and implementation of numerical methods and algorithms, and symbolic methods. The prominence of computation with analysis and ultimate implementation efficiency of the computational methods in the research is a hallmark of the program. Proposals ranging from single-investigator projects that develop and analyze innovative computational methods to interdisciplinary team projects that not only create and analyze new mathematical and computational techniques but also use/implement them to model, study, and solve important application problems are strongly encouraged."
513,Composite Airframe Life Extension (CALE),BAA-RQKPD-2015-0001,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force -- Research Lab,"The Composite Airframe Life Extension (CALE) program will concentrate on identifying, developing, demonstrating and validating technology that will allow USAF airframe structural integrity managers to safely extend the certified service lives of airframes currently in the USAF fleet that contain advanced composite primary structure, without widespread replacement of aged structure with new, and without repeating an extensive, complex building block demonstration process.  The CALE program will identify and develop technology to know and/or predict the residual strength, durability and damage tolerance, and  reliability of advanced composite structure throughout the original, and if required new service life of the airframe."
514,Cognitive Neuroscience,PD-15-1699,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The National Science Foundation announces the area of Cognitive Neuroscience within the Division of Behavioral and Cognitive Sciences in the Directorate for Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences.


INTRODUCTION


Cognitive neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field of research to understand the neural basis of human cognition. The cognitive neuroscience program therefore seeks to fund highly innovative proposals that employ brain-based measurements in order to advance our understanding of the neural systems that mediate cognitive processes. Human cognitive science encompasses a wide range of topics, including attention, learning, memory, decision-making, language, social cognition, and emotions.Proposals will be considered that investigate a particular cognitive process using human brain data.


PROGRAM DESCRIPTION


New frontiers in cognitive neuroscience research have emerged from investigations that integrate data at different spatial and temporal scales. A wide range of neuroimaging techniques are employed by cognitive neuroscientists for measuring or inferring neural activity, as well as techniques for determining neuroanatomical structure-function relationships (e.g., fMRI, EEG, MEG, TMS).Electrocorticography (ECoG) and experimental interventions in human neural function, including stimulation and manipulation techniques combined with neuroimaging, have advanced the field. Additional recent methodological advances include machine-learning and multivariate analysis methods, resting-state and task-based connectomics and large-scale data analysis used to investigate and infer functional mechanisms, as well as multimodal neuroimaging and model-based approaches, wherein computational cognitive models may directly inform neuroimaging results. 


The Cognitive Neuroscience Program seeks highly innovative proposals aimed at advancing a rigorous understanding of the neural mechanisms of human cognition. Central research topics for consideration by the program include attention, learning, memory, decision-making, language, social cognition, and emotions. Proposals with animal models are appropriate only if they include a comparative element with human subjects.


Proposals focused on behavioral, clinical or molecular mechanisms will not be considered for this program. Additionally, proposals directed at understanding low-level sensorimotor processes or restricted to model-based simulations of neural data will not be considered, unless they are embedded in a cognitive question related to one of the central research topics listed above.


Investigators are highly encouraged to contact the program director before submitting a proposal regarding the appropriateness of their project for the Cognitive Neuroscience Program. Please include a one-page summary with an overview of your research and statements of intellectual merit and broader impacts, the two NSF review criteria. See the Merit Review FactSheet for more important facts about the NSF merit review process.


Currently, the average award size is ~$175K per year (including both direct and indirect costs) and the average duration is 3 years. See the Listing ofActive Cognitive Neuroscience Awardsforadditional award information.


Declined proposals are ineligible for resubmission until a minimum of one year has passed since their initial submission. This moratorium allows investigators the time required to digest the results of the merit review and revise their proposal accordingly. A proposal that has not been substantially revised will be returned without review asper the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG)."
515,Fundamental Research to Counter Weapons of Mass Destruction,HDTRA1-14-24-FRCWMD-BAA,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Defense Threat Reduction Agency,"**AMENDED 16 December 2019**: The latest revision is posted as Amendment 12. Potential applicants are strongly encouraged to review the Amendment in its entirety, as it updates several sections. Specifically, “ATTACHMENT 1: SPECIFIC TOPICS” now includes Basic Research Topics J1-J5, with pre-application white papers due by 11:59pm EST on 4 March 2020. ** Please note that all correspondence must be sent to the appropriate Agency contact identified in Section 7. Agency Contacts. **"
516,Climate and Large-Scale Dynamics,PD-06-5740,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The goals of the Program are to: (i) advance knowledge about the processes that force and regulate the atmosphere’s synoptic and planetary circulation, weather and climate, and (ii) sustain the pool of human resources required for excellence in synoptic and global atmospheric dynamics and climate research.


Research topics include theoretical, observational and modeling studies of the general circulation of the stratosphere and troposphere; synoptic scale weather phenomena; processes that govern climate; the causes of climate variability and change; methods to predict climate variations; extended weather and climate predictability; development and testing of parameterization of physical processes; numerical methods for use in large-scale weather and climate models; the assembly and analysis of instrumental and/or modeled weather and climate data; data assimilation studies; development and use of climate models to diagnose and simulate climate and its variations and change.


Some Climate and Large Scale Dynamics (CLD) proposals address multidisciplinary problems and are often co-reviewed with other NSF programs, some of which, unlike CLD, use panels in addition to mail reviewers, and thus have target dates or deadlines. Proposed research that spans in substantive ways topics appropriate to programs in other divisions at NSF, e.g., ocean sciences, ecological sciences, hydrological sciences, geography and regional sciences, applied math and statistics, etc., must be submitted at times consistent with target dates or deadlines established by those programs. If it's not clear whether your proposed research is appropriate for co-review, please contact CLD staff."
517,National Facilities,PD-05-1743,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The National Facilities program supports the operation of national user facilities: National Facilities areresearch facilities with specialized instrumentation available to the scientific research community in general and the materials research community in particular.These facilities provide unique research capabilities that can be located at only a few highly specialized laboratories in the Nation. They provide open user service for scientists and engineers from a broad range of disciplines including biology, chemistry, geosciences, materials research. and physics. Theyinclude facilities and resources for research using high magnetic fields, ultraviolet and x-ray synchrotron radiation, neutron scattering, and nanofabrication. Theyserve as science and technology-related resources and experiences for students. Theyconduct student and teacher education, general public awareness activities, curriculum development, and educational research."
518,Paleoclimate,PD-98-1530,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Supports research on the natural evolution of Earth's climate with the goal of providing a baseline for present variability and future trends through improved understanding of the physical, chemical, and biological processes that influence climate over the long-term.


Competitive proposals will address specific aspects of scientific uncertaintyfor their proposed research.


All four Divisions in the Geosciences Directorate have joined in creating the annual Paleo Perspectives on Climate Change (P2C2) competition in paleoclimate global change research. Researchers are encouraged to consider the P2C2 competitionas a possible source of support for their global change research.


Since proposals eligible for funding in the P2C2 competition are not eligible for funding in the Paleoclimate Program, researchers are strongly advised to contact the Director of the Paleoclimate Program for guidance as to the suitability of their proposed research for either program.


"
519,Physical and Dynamic Meteorology,PD-98-1522,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Physical and Dynamic Meteorology supports research involving studies of cloud physics; atmospheric electricity; radiation; boundary layer and turbulence; the initiation, growth, and propagation of gravity waves; all aspects of mesoscale meteorological phenomena, including their morphological, thermodynamic, and kinematic structure; development of mesoscale systems and precipitation processes; and transfer of energy between scales. The program also sponsors the development of new techniques and devices for atmospheric measurements."
520,Atmospheric Chemistry,PD-98-1524,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Supports research to measure and model the concentration and distribution of gases and aerosols in the atmosphere. Also, supports research on chemical reactions among atmospheric species; sources and sinks of important trace gases and aerosols; transport of gases and aerosols throughout the atmosphere; atmospheric photochemistry, heterogeneous reactions, aqueous-phase chemistry and aerosol processes; and improved methods for measuring the concentrations of trace species and their fluxes into and out of the atmosphere."
521,Geospace Facilities,PD-04-4202,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The National Science Foundation supports four large incoherent-scatter radar facilities and the SuperDARN coherent scatter radar system. The incoherent-scatter radars are located along a longitudinal chain from Greenland to Peru. Each of the incoherent-scatter facilities is also equipped with powerful optical diagnostic instruments. The SuperDARN consists of a number of coherent-scatter HF radars in both the northern and southern hemispheres. 

The major goal of Geospace Facilities (GF) is to promote basic research on the structure and dynamics of the Earth's upper atmosphere. Research efforts utilizing these facilities have strong links to the Aeronomy Program and the Magnetospheric Physics Program."
522,Aeronomy,PD-98-1521,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Aeronomy Program supports research from the mesosphere to the outer reaches of the thermosphere and all regions of the Earth’s ionosphere. The Aeronomy Program seeks to understand phenomena of ionization, recombination, chemical reaction, photo emission, and the transport of energy, and momentum within and between these regions.The program also supports research into the coupling of this global system to the stratosphere below and magnetosphere above and the plasma physics of phenomena manifested in the coupled ionosphere-magnetosphere system, including the effects of high-power radio wave modification.


The Coupling, Energetics, and Dynamics of Atmospheric Regions (CEDAR) Program aims to understand changes in the atmosphere over short and long time scales. CEDAR is consistent with the recommendations and goals of the NAS Decadal Survey ""Solar and Space Physics: A Science for a Technological Society"". A primary goal of CEDAR is to explain how energy is transferred between atmospheric regions by combining a comprehensive observational program with theoretical and empirical modeling efforts. A data base of CEDAR observations is maintained for community use. The annual CEDAR Workshop attracts over 300 scientists including a large number of graduate students and as well as many international collaborators."
523,Solar Terrestrial,PD-98-1523,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Supports research on the processes by which energy in diverse forms is generated by the Sun, transported to the Earth, and ultimately deposited in the terrestrial environment. Major topics include space weather impacts, helioseismology, the solar dynamo, the solar activity cycle, magnetic flux emergence, solar flares and eruptive activity, coronal mass ejections, solar wind heating, solar energetic particles, interactions with cosmic rays, and solar wind/magnetosphere boundary problems."
524,Magnetospheric Physics,PD-98-5750,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Supports research on the magnetized plasma envelope of the outer atmosphere, including energization by the solar wind; the origin of geomagnetic storms and substorms; the population by solar and ionospheric sources; the origin of electric fields; the coupling among the magnetosphere, ionosphere, and atmosphere; and waves and instabilities in the natural plasma. Also supported are ground-based observational programs at high latitudes and laboratory experiments applicable to the geospace environment. Theoretical research programs may include numerical simulations using a variety of MHD, hybrid and particle codes. The analysis of data from all sources, whether ground-based or from spacecraft, is also supported."
525,Lower Atmosphere Observing Facilities,PD-04-1529,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The National Science Foundation (NSF) Division of Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences (AGS) Lower Atmosphere Observing Facilities (LAOF) Program oversees a portfolio of multi-user national facilities that are sponsored by NSF for use by the geosciences research community. Program management resides within AGS in the NCAR and Facilities Section (NFS) which provides a single point for coordination of planning and resources.  The LAOF program enables geoscience research through the provision of specialized facilities, instrumentation, and field support services necessary to carry out the scientific field work associated with investigations of a wide range of geophysical phenomena. The program is actively involved in decisions about the acquisition, operation, maintenance, upgrading and replacement of these facilities based on input from the scientific community. LAOF funding supports both the planning for scientific field programs (e.g., experimental design, operational plans, logistical support) and the actual deployment of NSF-sponsored facilities."
526,Physical Oceanography,PD-98-1610,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Physical Oceanography Program supports research on a wide range of topics associated with the structure and movement of the ocean, with the way in which it transports various quantities, with the way the ocean's physical structure interacts with the biological and chemical processes within it, and with interactions between the ocean and the atmosphere, solid earth and ice that surround it."
527,Chemical Oceanography,PD-98-1670,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"TheChemical OceanographyProgram supports research into the chemistry of the oceans and the role of the oceans in global geochemical cycles. Areas of interest include chemical composition, speciation, and transformation; chemical exchanges between the oceans and other components of the Earth system; internal cycling in oceans, seas, and estuaries; and the use of measured chemical distributions as indicators of physical, biological, and geological processes."
528,Research Interests of the United States Air Force Academy,USAFA-BAA-2015,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",Air Force Academy,"The USAFA invests in an active research program for three main reasons. First and foremost, research significantly enhances the cadet learning experience. Our research is done by, for and with cadets who work alongside fellow cadets and faculty mentors. Research provides cadets with rich independent learning opportunities as they tackle ill-defined problems and are challenged to apply their knowledge and abilities. Second, our research program provides opportunities essential for faculty development. Research broadens and deepens the experience base of the faculty. This infuses current, relevant, state-of-the-art and cutting-edge applications and examples into the curriculum. This also helps our faculty remain current in their respective fields. Third, at USAFA we strive to conduct research to enhance the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission. There are ongoing research projects spanning topics as diverse as super hypersonics, cyber security, spatial disorientation, athletic performance and homeland defense. This BAA offers a vehicle for research to be performed to satisfy these three objectives, while also meeting research needs of industry counterparts/serve a public purpose. All awards issued against this BAA must serve to benefit the objectives identified above. "
529,Ocean Drilling Program,PD-14-5720,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"International Ocean Discovery Program Operations


The International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP) serves to advance basic research in the marine geosciences and is supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF) and its international partners. The science plan, Illuminating Earth's Past, Present, and Future: The International Ocean Discovery Program Science Plan for 2013-2023, provides justification for the United States' participation in the IODP and reflects the top priorities of the international science community. A multi-platform approach is required to address the goals outlined in the IODP science plan, including a non-riser vessel to collect widely-distributed high-resolution cores to address climate, environmental, crustal and observatory science objectives; a heavy riser-equipped vessel to reach the deep sedimentary and crustal layers; and mission-specific platforms to support high-latitude and shallow-water projects.


The light drillship, JOIDES Resolution, is provided by the U.S. National Science Foundation. Science operations for the JOIDES Resolution are conducted through a Cooperative Agreement with Texas A&M University with scientific planning conducted by the JOIDES Resolution Facility Board.


The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) of Japan provides the heavy drillship, Chikyu (Earth), to conduct the deep drilling projects in the new program. The Center for Deep Earth Exploration of the Independent Administrative Institution, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC) operates the vessel for IODP. Scientific planning for Chikyu IODP operations is conducted by the Chikyu IODP Board.


Mission Specific Platforms (MSP) are provided by the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD). The ECORD Facility Board conducts scientific planning for MSP expeditions and the platforms themselves are operated by the European Science Operator (ESO).


A Science Support Office (SSO) is provided by Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego under a Cooperative Agreement with the National Science Foundation. The SSO’s primary tasks include:


providing logistical support for the JOIDES Resolution Facility Board and its advisory panels
overseeing the proposal submission and review process
managing the Site Survey Data Bank
providing a gateway website to IODP scientific planning


U.S. scientific community involvement in IODP is facilitated by the United States Science Support Program (USSSP) for Ocean Drilling. USSSP is run by Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University under a Cooperative Agreement with the National Science Foundation. USSSP’s primary tasks are:


support for U.S.-based researchers to participate on IODP expeditions, participate on the IODP advisory panels, and conduct initial post-expedition research
support for planning and thematic workshops and pre-drilling activities to collect, refine, and/or integrate site specific and/or regional data that aid in planning drilling expeditions
support outreach activities on IODP drilling platforms, for graduate students fellowships, and an IODP-themed lecture series. 


United States Science Support for Drilling-Related Research


Grant support for drilling-related research performed by United States scientists is available from the NSF. Proposals for most pre-expedition (e.g., site characterization) and post-expedition studies should be submitted through the appropriate NSF programs, such as Ocean Sciences Marine Geology and Geophysics, Earth Sciences, Polar Programs, etc.


Additional drilling-related research support for United States scientists may be obtained via the U.S. Science Support Program. Funding opportunities from this NSF-sponsored program include, but are not limited to:


supplemental funding (<$18,000) for post-expedition research by U.S scientists who participate in IODP expeditions
planning activities, such as workshops on specific ocean-drilling scientific themes, topics, or geographic regions
pre-drilling activities to acquire data or information that will enhance a drilling expedition.
"
530,Research Techs,P11AT80752,"Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education",National Park Service,The objective of this Task Agreement is to support and stimulate work and/or education and training opportunities for young adults through collaborative participation in natural resource research and inventory and monitoring for the parks of the Mojave Desert Network.
531,Science of Organizations,PD-11-8031,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"Organizations -- private and public, established and entrepreneurial, designed and emergent, formal and informal, profit and nonprofit -- are critical to the well-being of nations and their citizens. They are of crucial importance for producing goods and services, creating value, providing jobs, and achieving social goals. The Science of Organizations (SoO) program funds basic research that yields a scientific evidence base for improving the design and emergence, development and deployment, and management and ultimate effectiveness of organizations of all kinds. 

SoO funds research that advances our fundamental understanding of how organizations develop, form and operate. Successful SoO research proposals use scientific methods to develop and refine theories, to empirically test theories and frameworks, and to develop new measures and methods. Funded research is aimed at yielding generalizable insights that are of value to the business practitioner, policy-maker and research communities. 

SoO welcomes any and all rigorous, scientific approaches that illuminate aspects of organizations as systems of coordination, management and governance. 

In considering whether a particular project might be a candidate for consideration by SoO, please note: 
Intellectual perspectives may involve (but are not limited to) organizational theory, behavior, sociology or economics, business policy and strategy, communication sciences, entrepreneurship, human resource management, information sciences, managerial and organizational cognition, operations management, public administration, social or industrial psychology, and technology and innovation management. Phenomena studied may include (but are not limited to) structures, routines, effectiveness, competitiveness, innovation, dynamics, change and evolution.Levels of analysis may include (but are not limited to) organizational, cross-organizational collaborations or relationships, and institutional and can address individuals, groups or teams.Research methods may be qualitative and quantitative and may include (but are not limited to) archival analyses, surveys, simulation studies, experiments, comparative case studies, and network analyses. 
Consistent with NSF merit review criteria, each SoO proposal should discuss both the intellectual merit and the potential broader impacts of the proposed research. SoO values basic research that has the potential to provide broader societal benefits. However, the majority of space in any proposal will need to be dedicated to the explication of theory, methods, and specific contribution to the evidence base about organizational effectiveness.

Projects that aim to implement and subsequently evaluate particular organizational training, effectiveness or change programs, rather than to advance fundamental, generalizable knowledge, are not appropriate for SoO.
Researchers who seek to conduct SoO-appropriate research in an industrial site and/or via an industry-university collaboration are invited to also look at the Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaisons with Industry (GOALI) program web site."
532,Supplemental Opportunity for SBIR/STTR Memberships in I/UCRCs,PD-09-5761,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"NSF invites supplemental requests for Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer (SBIR/STTR) grantees to join an Industry/University Cooperative Research Center (I/UCRC). The supplements are intended to accelerate the innovation process by partnering industry-relevant academic research with commercialization focused small business research. The supplements will enable small businesses to purchase annual memberships in I/UCRCs; thus opening the doors to the benefits of the centers’ collaborative research endeavors, which are directed to the needs of specific industries. Please see the ""Related URL"" section for additional information about this opportunity."
533,Developmental Sciences,PD-08-1698,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"DS supports basic research that increases our understanding of cognitive, linguistic, social, cultural, and biological processes related to human development across the lifespan. Research supported by this program will add to our knowledge of the underlying developmental processes that support social, cognitive, and behavioral functioning, thereby illuminating ways for individuals to live productive lives as members of society.


DS supports research that addresses developmental processes within the domains of cognitive, social, emotional, and motor development across the lifespan by working with any appropriate populations for the topics of interest including infants, children, adolescents, adults, and non-human animals. The program also supports research investigating factors that affect developmental change including family, peers, school, community, culture, media, physical, genetic, and epigenetic influences. Additional priorities include research that: incorporates multidisciplinary, multi-method, microgenetic, and longitudinal approaches; develops new methods, models, and theories for studying development; includes participants from a range of ethnicities, socioeconomic backgrounds, and cultures; and integrates different processes (e.g., memory, emotion, perception, cognition), levels of analysis (e.g., behavioral, social, neural), and time scales.


The budgets and durations of supported projects vary widely and are greatly influenced by the nature of the project. Investigators should focus on innovative, potentially transformative research plans and then develop a budget to support those activities, rather than starting with a budget number and working up to that value.


While there are no specific rules about budget limitations, a typical project funded through the DS program is approximately 3 years in duration with a total cost budget, including both direct and indirect costs, between $100,000 and $200,000 per year. Interested applicants are urged to explore the NSF awards database for the DS program to review examples of awards that have been made.


The DS program also accepts proposals for workshops and small conferences. These typically have total cost budgets, including direct and indirect costs, of approximately $35,000.


In addition to consulting the NSF awards database, it is often useful for interested applicants to submit (via email) a summary of no more than one page so that the Program Director can advise the investigator on the fit of the project for DS prior to preparation of a full proposal. New Investigators are encouraged to solicit assistance in the preparation of their project proposals via consultation with senior researchers in their area, pre-submission review by colleagues, and attendance at symposia and events at professional conferences geared towards educating investigators seeking federal funding.


The Developmental Sciences program is always interested in identifying new reviewers. Potential reviewers should have a PhD in Psychology or related field and have a demonstrated area of expertise relevant to developmental science. Individuals interested in reviewing for the program should send a short description of their areas of expertise (2 sentences) and their CV to the Developmental Sciences Program Director."
534,Linguistics,PD-98-1311,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Linguistics Program supports basic science in the domain of human language, encompassing investigations of the grammatical properties of individual human languages, and of natural language in general. Research areas include syntax, semantics, morphology, phonetics, and phonology.


The program encourages projects that are interdisciplinary in methodological or theoretical perspective, and that address questions that cross disciplinary boundaries, such as (but not limited to):



What are the psychological processes involved in the production, perception, and comprehension of language?


What are the computational properties of language and/or the language processor that make fluent production, incremental comprehension or rapid learning possible?


How do the acoustic and physiological properties of speech inform our theories of natural language and/or language processing?


What role does human neurobiology play in shaping the various grammatical properties of language?


How does language develop in natural learning contexts across the life-span?


What social and cultural factors underlie language variation and change?



Because NSF's mandate is to support basic research, theLinguistics Program does not fund research that takes as its primary goal improved clinical practice or applied policy, nor does it support work to develop or assess pedagogical methods or tools for language instruction.


The Linguistics Program accepts proposals for a variety of project types: research proposals from scholars with PhDs or equivalent degrees, proposals for Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement (LING-DDRI) awards, and CAREER proposals. We will also consider proposals forconferences. Funding requests for conference support should be submitted in accordance with Chapter II.E.7 of NSF’s Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/policydocs/pappg19_1/pappg_2.jsp#IIE7.


The Linguistics Program, in partnership with the National Endowment for the Humanities and in collaboration with programs in other NSF Directorates, supports efforts to develop and advance knowledge and infrastructure that will enable the analysis of languages that are both understudied and at risk of falling out of use. In recognition of the critical relevance of these languages to understanding the range and limits of human linguistic and cultural variation, the Linguistics Program accepts research and dissertation proposals in response to solicitations NSF Dynamic Language Infrastructure - NEH Documenting Endangered Languages (DLI-DEL)NSF 19-606 and Linguistics: Dynamic Language Infrastructure -Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DLI-DDRI) NSF 19-607.


For more information about Multidisciplinary Research and Training Opportunities, please visit the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities web site."
535,Social Psychology,PD-98-1332,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Social Psychology Program at NSF supports research and research infrastructure to advance basic knowledge in social psychology. Projects funded by the Social Psychology Program support the NSF mission to promote the progress of science; to advance the national health, prosperity, and welfare; and to secure the national defense. Proposals considered by the Social Psychology Program must communicate both the intellectual merit of the science and its broader societal impacts.


Proposed research should carry strong potential for creating transformative advances in the basic understanding of human social behavior. Among the many research topics supported are: social cognition, attitudes, social and cultural influence, stereotypes, motivation, decision making, group dynamics, aggression, close relationships, social and affective neuroscience, social psychophysiology, emotions, prosocial behavior, health-related behavior, and personality and individual differences. Proposals that develop new theories or methods for understanding social behavior are highly encouraged. Research samples should represent substantial ranges of ethnicities, socioeconomic backgrounds, cultures, and other dimensions of human populations.


Interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary and convergent research approaches are encouraged. Proposals involving non-human animals are considered only if the research offers clear and direct contributions to understanding human social behavior. The program does not fund research that seeks to improve clinical practice as its primary outcome, nor does it consider proposals with disease-related goals, including work on the etiology, diagnosis or treatment of physical or mental disease, abnormality, or malfunction in human beings or animals.


In assessing intellectual merit, the Social Psychology Program places highest priority on research that is theoretically grounded, based on empirical observation and validation, and with designs appropriate to the questions asked. In assessing broader impacts, the Social Psychology Program places highest priority on proposals that offer strong potential to benefit society, strengthen our national security interests, improve the quality of life, broaden participation in science, enhance infrastructure for research and education, and include a plan for sharing the results with a wide variety of audiences.


The Social Psychology Program expects the methods, measures and data that result from NSF support to be openly shared with other researchers and the public. For further guidance proposers should consult Data Management for NSF SBE Directorate Proposals and Awards. The Data Management Plan should articulate how the proposed research will engage with best practices of open science. Researchers are expected to engage in open science practices, and deviations from that should be well-justified.


The Social Psychology Program accepts regular research proposals, including Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) proposals, proposals for research in undergraduate institutions (RUI), rapid response research proposals (RAPID), and early-concept grants for exploratory research (EAGER). The Program also accepts small conference proposals for events (including workshops) being planned one year or more after submission. The Social Psychology Program does not accept proposals for doctoral dissertation improvement awards.


Investigators are encouraged to contact a Social Psychology Program Director before submitting a proposal to confirm its fit with the scope and priorities of the Social Psychology Program. Such contact will be most productive by sending a one-page (maximum) summary with an overview of the planned proposal, which includes a description of intellectual merit and broader impacts.


The Social Psychology program is always interested in identifying new reviewers. Potential reviewers should have a PhD in Psychology or related field and have a demonstrated area of expertise relevant to social psychology. Individuals interested in reviewing for the program should send a short description of their areas of expertise (2 sentences) and their CV to a Social Psychology Program Director."
536,"Perception, Action & Cognition",PD-09-7252,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The PAC program funds theoretically motivated research on a wide-range of topic areas related to typical human behavior with particular focus on perceptual, motor, and cognitive processes and their interactions. Central research topics for consideration by the program include (but are not limited to) vision, audition, haptics, attention, memory, written and spoken language, spatial cognition, motor control, categorization, reasoning, and concept formation.Of particular interest are emerging areas, such as the interaction of sleep or emotion with cognitive or perceptual processes, epigenetics of cognition, computational models of cognition, and cross-modal and multimodal processing.The program welcomes a wide range of perspectives, such as individual differences, symbolic and neural-inspired computation, ecological approaches, genetics and epigenetics, nonlinear dynamics and complex systems, and a variety of methodologies spanning the range of experimentation and modeling. The PAC program is open to co-review of proposals submitted to other programs both within the Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences Directorate and across other directorates.


Note: Proposals may be returned without review if the major focus is 1) the organization of neural activity or brain networks; 2) understanding clinical populations; or 3) non-human animals without a clear and direct impact on our understanding of human perception, action, or cognition. Investigators are encouraged to send the program director a one-page summary of the proposed research before submitting a proposal, in order to determine its appropriateness for the PAC program.


Collaborators and Other Affiliations Information: Note that a single-copy document that accompanies the proposal but technically is not part of the proposal must be submitted to provide information about the collaborators and other affiliations of all individuals serving as a PI, co-PI, or senior personnel. This information should be prepared in accordance with the PAPPG Chapter II.C.1. For additional information about the submission of information about collaborators and other affiliations, refer to https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/coa.jsp .


Additional Funding Opportunities for the BCS Community may be found at http://nsf.gov/funding/pgm_list.jsp?org=BCS.


Individuals interested in serving as ad hoc reviewers for the PAC program are encouraged to complete a brief survey to be entered into a database of potential reviewers.


Individuals interested in receiving periodic updates on program developments, new solicitations, and other opportunities relevant to the PAC community should use this link to be entered into the PAC mailing list."
537,Economics,PD-98-1320,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Economics program supports research designed to improve the understanding of the processes and institutions of the U.S. economy and of the world system of which it is a part. This program also strengthens both empirical and theoretical economic analysis as well as the methods for rigorous research on economic behavior. It supports research in almost every area of economics, including econometrics, economic history, environmental economics, finance, industrial organization, international economics, labor economics, macroeconomics, mathematical economics, and public finance.


The Economics program welcomes proposals for individual or multi-investigator research projects, doctoral dissertation improvement awards, conferences,symposia, experimental research, data collection and dissemination, computer equipment and other instrumentation, and research experience for undergraduates. The program places a high priority on interdisciplinary research. Investigators are encouraged to submit proposals of joint interest to the Economics Program and other NSF programs and NSF initiative areas. The program places a high priority on broadening participation and encourages proposals from junior faculty, women, other underrepresented minorities, Research Undergraduate Institutions, and EPSCoR states.


The program also funds conferences and interdisciplinary research that strengthens links among economics and the other social and behavioral sciences as well as mathematics and statistics.


The Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants funding opportunity is designed to improve the quality of dissertation research.DDRIG awards provide funds for items not normally available through the student's university such as enabling doctoral students to undertake significant data-gathering projects and to conduct field research in settings away from their campus. DDRIGs do not provide cost-of-living or other stipends or tuition.Outstanding DDRIG proposals specify how the knowledge to be created advances economics science.


Proposals for Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIGS) in Economics should follow the directions for submissions in the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (https://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp&WT.z_pims_id=5437”). The following bulleted items provide additional guidance concerning DDRIGs in Economics:


Thedissertation advisor should be listed as the Principal Investigator and the student as the Co-Principal Investigator. It should be clear however that the proposal is written by, and the research conducted by, the student.
To assure that the proposal is appropriate for the Economics Program, the advisor of the doctoral student is strongly encouraged to contact one of the Economics Program Directors by e-mail prior to the preparation of the DDRIG proposal.
The Proposal Title should read, ""Doctoral Dissertation Research in Economics: ....""
Use a clear andconcise writing style.Reviewers will include economists from a variety of specialty areas. It is possible that no specialist from your particular area of research will be on the panel. Defining key terms and keeping your proposal free of jargon will ensure that all reviewers will be able to understand your proposal and evaluate it fairly.
One of the areas in which the proposal will be evaluated is your competence to carry out the research. It would be beneficial for you to include any other information that can help reviewers evaluate how well prepared you are to conduct the research.
DDRIG awards are designed to cover expenses such as travel to the research site, special equipment, and participation fees.
If you have additional questions, please contact one of the program directors listed above.


For additional funding opportunities, we invite you to also look at the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities web site."
538,Sociology,PD-98-1331,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Sociology Program supports basic research on all forms of human social organization -- societies, institutions, groups and demography -- and processes of individual and institutional change. The Program encourages theoretically focused empirical investigations aimed at improving the explanation of fundamental social processes. Included is research on organizations and organizational behavior, population dynamics, social movements, social groups, labor force participation, stratification and mobility, family, social networks, socialization, gender, race and the sociology of science and technology. The Program supports both original data collections and secondary data analysis that use the full range of quantitative and qualitative methodological tools. Theoretically grounded projects that offer methodological innovations and improvements for data collection and analysis are also welcomed.

The Sociology Program also funds doctoral dissertation research to defray direct costs associated with conducting research, for example, dataset acquisition, additional statistical or methodological training, meeting with scholars associated with original datasets, and fieldwork away from the student's home campus. See the Sociology ProgramDoctoral Dissertation Improvement Awards Solicitation for more information on this opportunity.

Please Note: Principal Investigators should select PD 98-1331 in the program announcement/solicitation block on the proposal Cover Sheet for submission of regular research projects to the Sociology Program andNSF 18-577for submission of Sociology Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement proposals. Projects are evaluated using the two Foundation-wide criteria, intrinsic merit and broader impacts. In assessing the intrinsic merit of proposed research, four components are key to securing support from the Sociology Program: (1) the issues investigated must be theoretically grounded; (2) the research should be based on empirical observation or be subject to empirical validation or illustration; (3) the research design must be appropriate to the questions asked; and (4) the proposed research must advance our understanding of social processes, structures and methods.

The NSF also offers a number of specialized funding opportunities through its crosscutting and cross-directorate activities; some of the Sociology related opportunities are listed below.

Crosscutting Research & Training Opportunities:


ADVANCE: Increasing the Participation and Advancement of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Careers
Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program
Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP)
Major Research Instrumentation (MRI) Program
SBE Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (SPRF)
Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)
Research at Undergraduate Institutions (RUI)
Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program


To get information about these programs and others, please visit the Cross-cutting and NSF-wide Active Funding Opportunities homepage."
539,Ocean Technology and Interdisciplinary Coordination,PD-98-1680,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Oceanographic Technology and Interdisciplinary Coordination (OTIC) Program supports a broad range of research and technology development activities. Unsolicited proposals are accepted for instrumentation development that has broad applicability to ocean science research projects and that enhance observational, experimental or analytical capabilities of the ocean science research community. Specific announcements for funding opportunities are made for additional projects involving Improvements in Facilities, Communications, and Equipment at Biological Field Stations and Marine Laboratories (FSML) and the National Ocean Partnership Program."
540,Biological Oceanography,PD-98-1650,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Biological Oceanography Program supports fundamental research in biological oceanography and marine ecology (populations to the ecosystems) broadly defined: relationships among aquatic organisms and their interactions with the environments of the oceans or Great Lakes. Projects submitted to the program are often interdisciplinary efforts that may include participation by other OCE Programs. Details on research topics funded by the Program, including supplements, RAPIDS, and EAGERS, can be found by selecting the link under Related URLS titled: “Additional Program Information.” To view research projects funded by the Program select the link below titled “What Has Been Funded (Recent Awards Made Through This Program, with Abstracts).”"
541,Biological Anthropology,PD-98-1392,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The Biological Anthropology Program supports basic research in areas related to human evolution and contemporary human biological variation. Research areas supported by the program include, but are not limited to, human genetic variation, human and nonhuman primate ecology and adaptability, human osteology and bone biology, human and nonhuman primate paleontology, functional anatomy, and primate socioecology. Grants supported in these areas are united by an underlying evolutionary framework, and often by a consideration of adaptation as a central theoretical theme. Proposals may also have a biocultural or bioarchaeological orientation. The program frequently serves as a bridge within NSF between the social and behavioral sciences and the natural and physical sciences, and proposals commonly are jointly reviewed and funded with other programs.


For more information about Multidisciplinary Research and Training Opportunities, please visit the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities web site.


For additional, specificinformation on the Biological Anthropology Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Grants (DDRIGs) solicitation, please visit the Biological Anthropology DDRIG program web site."
542,Archaeology and Archaeometry,PD-98-1391,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"The goal of the Archaeology Program is to fund research which furthers anthropologically relevant archaeological knowledge. In accordance with the National Science Foundation’s mission such research has the potential to provide fundamental scientific insight. While within the broad range of “archaeology” the focus is on projects judged to be significant from an anthropological perspective, the Program sets no priorities based on time period, geographic region or specific research topic. The Program administers four competitions each of which is described below. It also supports projects submitted under NSF-wide competition guidelines. These include CAREER, EAGER, RAPID and Research Experiences for Undergraduates Supplement requests.


Doctoral Dissertation Research Improvement Awards (DDRI)


For a detailed description of the Archaeology Program DDRI competition, see Solicitation NSF 15-554 which can be accessed via the Archaeology DDRI web site. It contains additional rules not presented in this synopsis. The DDRI competition provides up to $20,000 (+ university indirect/overhead costs) to permit graduate students enrolled in US universities to conduct dissertation research. The student need not be a US citizen or national. While the student writes the proposal and conducts/supervises the research, the dissertation advisor serves as the Principal Investigator and the student is listed as the Co-PI. Salary and normal living expenses are not eligible costs but per diem and most other research expenses are allowable. Both field and non-field projects are funded. Proposals may be submitted at any time and applicants are normally informally notified of the likely outcome within three months. Applications are sent for evaluation to six individuals (“ad hoc reviewers”) specifically selected for subject matter expertise. Students are allowed to resubmit one time if their original proposal is declined. Unless Program Officer dispensation is obtained, a student, through their advisor, may submit only two proposals (an original submission and a resubmission if necessary).


Senior Archaeological Research


The Archaeology Program holds a twice yearly competition to provide support for senior investigator archaeological research. The target dates, as noted above, are July 1 and December 20. (In contrast to “deadlines”, “target dates” permit leeway as determined by the Program Director.) Each proposal is sent to a set of ad hoc reviewers and is also evaluated together with the other applications submitted in that round by a broadly based panel of anthropological archaeologists. Grants are normally two to three years in duration. In the US Government fiscal year 2018 (FY18), the average award (including both direct and indirect costs) was approximately $172,000 with individual grants ranging from $29,000 to $312,000 in size.


Archaeometry Research Awards


The Archaeology Program administers an annual “archaeometry” competition with a target date of December 1. The goal is to fund projects either to develop/refine anthropologically relevant archaeometric techniques and/or support laboratories which provide relevant services. Examples of the former include the development of methods to identify specific types of organic residues on ceramics or development of field applicable analytic techniques. Service laboratories which, for example provide dating trace element, isotopic and dendrochronological analyses illustrate the latter. Projects which apply standard archaeometic techniques with the goal to answer specific archaeological questions should be submitted to the “senior” archaeology competition. Data archives, in common with archaeometric laboratories, function to strengthen basic archaeological infrastructure. Therefore, Principal Investigators may submit proposals through the archaeometry competition to assist in meeting this goal. Proposals are evaluated by both ad hoc reviewers and a panel composed of individuals who combine both archaeological and archaeometric expertise. Awards (including indirect costs) are normally two to three years in duration and in FY18 ranged from $99,000 to $188,000 in size. The average award was $144,000.


High Risk Research in Biological Anthropology and/or Archaeology (HRRBAA)(See Solicitation NSF 19-570which can be accessed via the HRRBAA program web site.)


This competition is designed to permit the submission of high-risk, exploratory proposals that can lead to significant new anthropological knowledge. Because of a highly competitive environment, proposals that have both a high risk of failure and the potential for significant payoffs are less able to compete with standard research proposals. This program is designed to provide a mechanism whereby risky proposals with a great potential for advancement of the discipline can compete for funding. The risk involved in such endeavors must significantly exceed that associated with regular archaeology research projects. “Risk” in this context refers to risk of project failure and not risk of site destruction. The competition is also not intended to provide “start-up” grants. Maximum awards are limited to $35,000 in total cost and proposals may be submitted at any time. They are evaluated by ad hoc reviewers only. In FY18 the HRRBAA program did not make anyhigh risk awards.


NSF Required Data Management Plan


All proposals must include as a supplementary document a plan for data management and sharing the products of research. The data-management plan to be submitted with a proposal must be no longer than two (2) pages in length.


This supplementary document should describe how the proposal will conform to NSF policy on the dissemination and sharing of research results. For more information about this requirement, please see the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG), Chapter II.C.2.j. Please note: the SBE Directorate has additional guidance for proposals submitted to SBE programs, please see Data Management for NSF SBE Directorate Proposals and Awards. Questions should be addressed to John Yellen via e-mail (jyellen@nsf.gov).


While the Archaeology Program does not sponsor, endorse or have an official arrangement with any data archive it would note that two organizations provide this service: Open Context (https://opencontext.org) and The Digital Archaeological Record - tDAR (https://www.tdar.org).


Onemay contact Open Context's Editor (publish@opentext.org)for further information and Francis P. McManamon, Executive Director of Digital Authority (480-965-6510;fpmcmanamon@digitalantiquity.org)who maintains and develops tDAR.


In addition to the NSF guidance, you may find the guidance provided by the Society for American Archaeology (SAA) helpful. Additional resources can be found at the SAA site.


When necessary, applicants may request funds to implement a data management plan.


For more information about multi-disciplinary research and training opportunities, please visit the SBE Office of Multidisciplinary Activities (SMA) web site.


Also, for more information on the Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grants, please visit the Archaeology Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Awards program web site."
543,Developing Country Collaborations in Plant Genome Research (DCC-PGR) ,04-563,"Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any clarification in text field entitled ""Additional Information on Eligibility""",National Science Foundation,"This letter is to call your attention to a new activity that will support research collaboration between US scientists and scientists in developing countries as part of ongoing or new Plant Genome Research Program awards.  The Developing Country Collaborations in Plant Genome Research (DCC-PGR) is an addendum to the NSF Program Solicitation, NSF 04-510, Plant Genome Research Program (PGRP) (http://www.nsf.gov/pubsys/ods/getpub.cfm?nsf04510). The intent of DCC-PGR awards is to support collaborative research linking US researchers with partners from developing countries to solve problems of mutual interest in agriculture, energy and the environment, while placing US and international researchers at the center of a global network of scientific excellence. The long-term goal of these collaborative research efforts is a greater and sustained engagement with developing countries in plant biotechnology research. In order to realize the full potential of biotechnology for the developing world, the technology must target crops grown locally in the developing countries and the traits that are most relevant to the local farmers and consumers. At the same time, proposals should meet the broad goals of the PGRP described in the current Program Solicitation.  Of special interest are those research projects that build on prior PGRP investments and that tackle problems specific to crops grown in the developing world. A request for supplemental funding should be made under an existing PGRP award.  Support can also be requested within a proposal for a new or renewal PGRP award.  Proposed collaborative activities are encouraged that focus on research problems important to developing countries and that include scientist-to-scientist interactions potentially leading to long-term partnerships among participating laboratories. The exchange of ideas and people should be reciprocal and should be built on equal partnerships among U.S. scientists and scientists of developing nations.  Examples of activities to be supported would include, but not be limited to: joint research projects; and long-term (1 year) or short-term (1-3 months) exchange visits that are reciprocal exchanges of investigators and students between the US and developing countries. Collaborations should be developed that bring complementary sets of expertise to bear on problems of importance to the participants from developing countries, and that meet their identified needs."
